McCOOMBS BOUND OVER.

He is Held on the Charge of Uttering 8
Forged Check.

J. P. McCoombs. ex-secretary of the re-
lief committee, war yesterday morning
bound over to the superior coart in the sum
of $50, after a preliminary bearing before
Justice Miller, on a charge of uttering a
faise check.

were

t over $12 worth of goods sent to her
home.

George H. Heilbron was the next wit-

ness called. The committee, he stated, at

one time issued payable to

had brought the check in question around
for him to.sign. He testified that a written
report in reference to this check had been
submitted ata meeting of the committee
by Detective Rogers, who stated that Mrs.
Maroney had toid him that she
signed the check, and that McCoombs had
toid him that be took the check up to Mrs,
Maroney and secured her signature to it.

Jacob Furth, of the Puget Sound Na-
tional Bank, testified that the check had
been presented at his bank and paid. Mc-
Coombs had been in the habit of cashing
checks there. He said that in cases where
persons could not find anyone to identify
them, checks were sometimes paid with-
out identification after close questioning.

Detective Rogers testified as to how he
had worked the case up. Mrs. Maroney
had positively denied indorsing the check.

The defendant was not placed upon the
stand, and no witnesses were called in his
behalf.

Attorney Albertson moved that the de-
fendant be discharged, as no evidence had
been introduced to prove that the inderse-
ment was forged, or that McCoombs had
forged it.

The court ruled that Mrs. Maroney’s
evidé@ce had- not been impeached, and
decided to hold McCoombs. No bond has
as yetbeen given by McCoombs, but he
pat up $500 cash, and is at liberty.

T. W. Wald, James Franklin and Clar-
ence Bagley, the committee appointed to
examine the books of the relief committee,
have begun their task. It will probably
take them until tomorrow to arrive at any
results. This auditing committee has re-
tained W. D. Fenton as its attorney.
