McCoombs a Forger

Ex-Relief Agent Arrested on a Second Charge

The First Case Did Not Stick

He Is Now Held on a Charge of Forging a
Beneficiary's Endorsement to a Check

After a preliminary hearing yesterday afternoon Justice Miller refused to hold ex-Secreatary J.P. McCoombs, of the relief committee, on the charge of embezzling $10 drawn for Mrs. Maggie Sellars, one of the beneficiaries of the committee, and ordered him discharged from custody.

The portly ex-attache of the relef committee did not enjoy freedom long enough to arise from his seat in the courtroom, for he was immediately rearrested on a charge of uttering a forged check, knowing the same to be forged.  On this charge his bail was fixed at $500, which amount he furnished last evening, and was alloed to go free for the time being.

The Preliminary Hearing:

The preliminary hearing on the charge of embezzlement began at 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon.  The defendant was present with his attorneys R.B. Albertson and George Donworth.  Prosecuting Attorney E.M. Carr represented the state.  When Judge Miller rapped the crowd of fifty spectators that filled the courtroom to sorder, Attorney Alberson arose and entered a plea of not guilty for his client.  He added that he was ready to proceed with the hearing, and Attorney Carr also signfied his readiness by calling Jacob Furth, cashier of the Puget Sound National Bank, as his first witness.

Mr. Furth identified the check or order on the treasurer of the relief committee for $20 payable to Phillip Sellars and signed by John Leary, chairman, and J.P. McCoombs, secreatry.  In answer to Attorney Carr's questions he testified as follows:  "That order was cashed at our bank on April 11.  We were actin in the absence of Governor E.P. Ferry as treasurer of the relief committee."  The witness was then turned over to the defense for cross-examination.  He would not say when he first saw the order but knew it was paid on April 11.

John Leary was next sworn.  For the prosecution he identified his and McCoombs' signatures on the order, and for the defense he testified that he was sure that he had signed the order on April 1.  He had no recollection fo the circumstances of the case and was excused.

Prosecuting Attorney Carr then offered the check in evidence, and called Mrs. Maggie Sellars to the stand.  "I came here to live from Tacoma in November last," testified Mrs. Sellars.  "My husband gave me a letter applying for relief to the committee, and I took it down to Mr. McCoombs' office on the morning of May 11.  My daughter was with me.  Agent McCoombs was not in and we called again early in the afternoon and found him.  We three were in the committee room alone.  I handed the defendant my husband's application.  He went out and remained away nearly an hour, and when he returned he called me over to the desk and requested me to sign my name on a piece of paper.  I started to do so and then he told me to sign my husband's name.  I did not see the face of the paper.  Agent McCoombs then gave me a $10 greenback.  I told him that my husband was sick and that I had five children to support, and did not think that enough.  He told me to make the best of it.  I identify the signature on the back of that check offered in evidence here as mine."

"Did you understand that you were getting all that the checck called for?" asked Prosecuting Attorney Carr.

"I thought---"

"I object," said Attorney Albertson.  "The witness has no right to suppose anything in giving testimony.  She can only testify to what she actually knows to be facts."  He and the state's attorney then argued the question for ten minutes and in the end the question was allowed.

"I thought so at the time," continued the witness.  "I never saw the check again until today."

The cross-examination revealed little or nothing. Attorney Albertson attempted to prove by the prosecuting witness that she and her husband were prejudiced against the defendant, and were revenging themselves on him, but the witness, after disciaiming any malice, earnestly said:
“We are not that kind of people” The cross-examination lasted a full boar, during which time Prosecuting Attorney Carr objected three times to the cheracter of the testimony and questions propounded.

The witness was finally excused and the prosecution rested. Attorney Albertson had no witnesses to examine for the defense and the arguments began. Prosecuting Attorney Carr cut his remarks to
three minutes and the defendant's attorney his to five minutes, and the case was submitted.

Justice Miller immediately rendered his decision. He commented first upon the peculiarities of the case and then on the testimony. He declined to bind the defendant over, holding that the prosecution had not established a case against him, and ordered his reiesse from custody.

ARRESTED ON ANOTHER CHARGE.

As the justice finished speaking he picked a paper up off bis desk and handed it to Constable Robinson, directing him to serve it upon McOoombs. It proved to be a warrant for the arrest of that individual upon a charge of uttering a forged check, and it was served upon him before he left his seat. McCoombs took the matter rather lightly, acting as if he had anticipated something of the kind. Justice Miller immediately fixed MeCoombs’ bonds at $500, which he refused to cut down in spite of the protest of Attorney Albertson, and set the hearing of the case for Monday morning at 10 o'clock. McCoombs started out in charge of Officer Ramage to search for bondemen or bail money. He succeeded in raising the required amount in cash at 7 o'clock last evening and was allowed bis 
liberty. 

THE CHARGE OF FORGERY

The case upon the strength of which McCoombs was rearrested was worked up by
Detective Rogers. One of the thirteen cases looked into by Officer Barck was that of Mrs. Maroney, who lives at Washington and Fourteenth streets. She stated that
she had received a certain amount of groceries on an order for $20 worth, but had never seen the cheek, yet Mr. McCoombs presented it to the Paget Sound National bank and bad it cashed on the strength of her indorsement. The detectives are confidert that they can secure McCoombe’ conviction on this charge The complaint or information upon which the warrant was issued ts sworn to by George H. Heilbron. It reads as follows:

In the justice court, before John F. Miller, Esp., justice of the peace for Seattle princinct.  State of Washington, counthy of King.

George H. Heilbron, being first duly sworn, on oath says:  That the city of Seattle, in the said King County, on the 7th day of April, A.D. 1890, one J.P. McCoombs did commit the crime of uttering a draft or order having theron a false and forged indorsement, knowing the said indorsement to be false and forged, with intent to defraud, as follow to wit:  By then and there being the said J.P. McCoombs having his custody and posession a certain draft or order for the payment of money, which said draft or order is in words, letters and figures as follows, to-wit:

"No. 1,297.

"General Relief Committee.  Seattle, Wash, April 7, 1890.

"To E.P. Ferry, Treasurer, at Puget Sound National Bank: Pay to the order of Mrs. Maroney twenty dollars for relief.  - G.H. Heilbron.

"J.P. McCoombs, Secretary."

On the back of which said above mentioned draft or order was then and there written a certain false and forged endorsement thereof, which said above mentioned false and forged endorsement is as follows, towit: "Mrs. Maroney."  He the said J.P. McCoombs then and there well knowing the said endorsement to be false and foreged, did then and there, unlawfully and feloniously offer, utter, dispose of, and put off the said above mentioned endorsement of the said aove mentioned draft or order upon E.P. Ferry, the person named in the said draft or order as teh drawee thereof with the intent then and there unlawfully and feloniously to defraud him the said E.P. Ferry.  He, the said J.P. McCoombs, at the time he so offered, uttered, dispose of and put off the said above mentioned false and forged ednorsement of the said above mentioned draft or order, then and there well knowing the said endorsement to the form of the statute in such cases made and provided and against the peace and dignity of the state of Washington.  - Geo. H. Heilbron.

Section 854 of the penal code covers the crime charged and makes it punishable by imprisonment for not less than one year, nor more than fourteen years, and by fine in any sum not exceeding $500. 

