McCOOMBS ARRESTED

Charge of Obtaining Money
Under False Pretenses

IT 1S A PENITENTIARY OFFENSE.

He Furnishes $200 Cash Bail Pending
Hearing—The Retief Committee to
Continue the Investigation.


Ex-Secretary J. P. McCoombs, of the re
lief committee, was arrested yesterday
afternoon upon a charge of emberziement
On & Warrant sworn ont by Mrs, Maggie
Seliars, who charges him with retaining $10
of $20 given to ber by tne relief committee.
Mrs. Sellars called upon Prosecuting Attor-
ney Carr yesterday morning and i
the circumstances of the case. He drew
up @ Warrant for McCoombs’ arrest, which
Mrs. Sellars took before Justice Miller and
subscribed her name to.

The warrant was turned over to Detec-
tive Rogers, who arrested McCoombs on
Yesler avenue, near Third street. He was
taken before Justice Miller, who fixed his
bail at $90). This was cut down to $200
on motion of the defendant's attorneys,
Messrs. R. B. Albertson and George Don-
worth: Thecase was then set for hearing
at 190'clock tomorrow morning. Secretary
McCoombs sueceeded in furnishing $20
cash bail by 5 o'clock iast evening, and he
was released from custody.

R. B. Albertson, his attorney, was seen
last evening. He stated that inasmuch as
it had been decided to prosecute his client
without further investigation, neither his
client nor himself proposed to dance at-
tendance upon the relief coramittee. When
asked what line of action he would pursue
in regard to a defense, he stated thathe
would either waive examination or go into
one before Justice Miller tomorrow morn-
ing &s the circumstances reyuired.

George H. Heilbron of the relief com-
mittee was called out of town yesterday
afternoon and Griffith Davies was before the
county commissioners, and no session was
held by the committee, Mr. Davies was
seen early in the afternoon. He stated
that he and the other members of the com-
mittee in the city had been looking over
the books of the ex-secretary and tracing
up some of the checks, but had accom-
plished nothing to speak of.

The committee wili meet today and Mr.
Davies stated last evening that it was the
intention to investigate the matter thor-
oughly.

Section 853 of the pena! code covers the
crime charged against ex-Secretary Mc-
Coombs. It reads as follows:

ifany person with intent to defraud another
shali desivnediy, by any false token or writing,
or any false pretense, obtain from any person
any money, transfer, note, bond or receipt, or
thing of value, sach person shall, upon convic-
tion thereof, be imprisoned in the penitentiary
not more than five years nor less than one year,
or imprisoned in the county jail for any length
of time not exceding one year.
