

McCoombs Convicted

The Jury returned its verdict in twenty minutes.

An admission by the defense

The ex-relief agent admitted signing name and claimed he had authority to do so.

The trial of J.P. McCoombs, the agent and ex-secretary of the reilef committee, for forgery, which has been in progress before Judge Humes since Tuesday afternoon, resulted in a verdict of guilty by the jury within twenty minutes after retiring with the case.  The jury retired at 5:10.  At 5:30 they announced that they had agreed upon a verdict.  The first ballot stood ten to two in favor of conviction.  The next ballot stood twelve for the verdict of guilty.

It will be remembered that evidence of the state's witnesses had been to the effect that on the 9th of last April, Agent McCoombs had submitted a written report to George H. Heilbron, of the relief committee, recommending relife for Mrs. "Maverty".  On the same day he called the lady to ascertain her wants, and in the afternoon a grocery wagon brought her provisions, valued according to the testimony, at from $10 to $12.  On the same day he presented a check for $20, drawn for Mrs. Maverty, for Mr. Heilbron's signature, which was gien and the check paid the same day at Puget Sound National bank.  This check was endorsed on the back "Mrs. Maverty."  Expert testimony was introduced to prove that this endorsement as well as the body of the check was written by the hand of Mr. McCoombs.

The defense fought the prosecution at every step in the attempt to establish the fact of McCoombs' forgery of this check, and resisted strenuously every inference that he had written the indorsement.  When Col J.C. Haines opened the case for the defense he sprang a surprise by stating that the defendant would admit that he had written the indorsement on the check and had cashed it.  Immediately before rising to make the statement, when the state rested its case, he had moved that the jury be instructed to find the defendant not guilty on the ground that the prosecution had failed because there was no evidence that the indorsement on the check was forged;  because there was no evidence that if it were forged it was done to defraud;  that it would defraude none of the persons mentioned in the indictment, and that there was no proof of the identity of the "Mrs. Maverty" indorsed on the check and Mrs. Mavity, the real name of the person who recieved the relief.

Continuing the opening statement to the jury Col Haines outlined the defense.  The members of the committee, he said, were busy men and had turned the distribution of the relief over to McCoombs.  he had been instructed by the committee to draw checks in the name of the beneficiaries and indorse them and cash them himself in cases where they were sick or lived at a distance.  

McCoombs was the only witness called in defense.  His examination occupied the greater part o the orning session.  In answer to the questions put to him by his counsel, the defendant stated that he reported Mrs. Mavity's case to Mr. Heilbron and on the same day called to see her.  He asked her what she wanted, and she told him provisions and money.  He gave her $5 of his own money and came back to Berlin Brother's grocery and ordered $15 worth of provisions and taken to her.  He presented a check for her to Mr. Heilbron who signed it, and he endorsed "Mrs. Maverty" upon its back and drew the cash.  He reimbursed himself wit h$5 advanced and paid the grocer $15.  He had instructions from the committee to indorse checks in special cases when drawn for persons who were sick, lived at a distance, or were unable to write.

On cross-examination McCoombs stated that he had lived in Seattle three years.  He was a barkeeper in the Artlington and Club Saloons before the fire.  He came here from POrtland, where he was in the saloon business four years.  Before that he had been in California in the liquor business several years, in San Francisco and Sacremento.  He was asked if he had ever been in the penitentiary.  The defense objected to this question, and the ojbection was sustained.  He was then asked what memebers of the relief committee had authorized him to indorse other people's names on checks, and he gave the names of John Leary and Mr. Heilbron.  He maintained that Mrs. Mavity had authorized him to indorse her name and that Mr. Heilbron had also instructed him in this particular case to indorse the check.  He drew the check for $20 before going t oMrs. Mavity's and had it with him when he called on her.

"Why did you not get her to indorse it there?" was asked.

"Because it was not signed by Mr. Heilbron."

Two other checks were then shown to the witness, dranw on different persons and indorsed.  During his examination on these documents he lost his temper.  He evaded the questions, refused to answer and finally lost his temper entirely.  When pressed with the question as to one of the htem, "Did you indorse this? he suddenly broke forth in a loud, angry tone, "No, sir, I did not indorse it."

Mrs. Mavity was recalled to the witness stand and swore positively that McCoombs did not give her any money.  She said she had never received any relief from McCoombs except on this occasion. 

Mr. George H. Heilbron and Mr. John Leary were called in rebuttal, and both swore positively that they had never instructed Mr. McCoombs to indorse other people's names to checks.  

The opening plea for the prosecution was made by Prosecuting Attorney Carr.  

R.B. Albertson and Col J.C. Haines followed for the defense, and W.D. Fenton closed for the state.  The argument occupied all of the afternoon session.  

throughout the day McCoombs manifested much more anxiety than on the preceding day.  He remained in the courtroom after the jury retired.  the court, audience and attorneys immediately left him almost to himself.  When the jurors rapped on the door after retiring, he said to Clerk McGaughey: "They have agreed soon.  That's a favorable sign."  A bailiff was immediately sent for Judge Humes, and the attorneys were summoned by telephone.  The prisoner did not betray any excitement when the jurors filed in and the verdict was handed to the court.  When the verdict was read by the clerk he received his doom without any visible agitation, except that he chewed on his tobacco a little faster and a little harder.

A Post-Intelligencer reporter called upon McCoombs in the county jail after he had heard the vedict.  He appeared in his usual good spirits, and the conviction of forgery seemed to rest lightly upon his mind.  He was not disposed to talk about the case.  All he would say was: "They tried pretty hard to get me over a barrel up in court today, and I guess they half succeeded, but we will fool 'em yet."  

When told that Detective Rogers was expected back from New York today with Goerge Turner, McCoombs said: "It aint no use to bring that young feller back; he didn't do nothing.  Rogers made a splurge over this case, and went East to dig up a reputation for the future, if he ever comes back.  Say, I don't believe Rogers will ever show up here again."   Why he thought so, McCoombs would not say.  He refused to talk further, and returned to his cell.



