McCOOMES SENTENCED. |
A New Trial Denied—Five Years in the
State Prison.
Special to the Ledger.

SEATTLE, June 19.—Forger McCoombs,
ex-secretary of the Seattle relief com-
mittee, was brought into Judge Humes’
court this’ morning upon a motion fora
new trial, which was argued by Colonel
J.C. Haines, one of his attorneys. The

motion was informally made and upon
the exceptions taken to the court’s
rulings asto evidenve, etc., during the
progress of the triai. Judge Humes held
that the trial was sufficient and denied
the motion.

Atime has not yet been set for the
hearing on the new charges that have
been preferred. It wiil probably take
place, however, within the next few
days.

At 1:30 o’clock McCoombs was rear-
raigned and received a sentence of five
years at hard labor in the penitentiary
at Walla Walla, for the crime of which
he. stocd convicted. The accused and
counsel entered the court room afew
minutes before. The auditorium was
well filled with curious spectators, who
had gathered there in expeciation of
what would take place. McCoombs stood
inside the railing and just back of his
counsel, Colonel J. C. Haines and R. B.
Albertson. Colonel Haines pleaded in
behalf of his client, asking the mercy of
the court. He referred to the fact of the
accused being well advanced in life, and
that he was also a cripple. The position
had never been sought by the accused in
any manner, and while he was not pre-
pared to say that the prisoner had abused
the confidence reposed in him, it was
very evident that the committee had
placed many temptations in his way.

 W. D. Fenton, assistant counsel for the

defense, concurred in what had been said
regarding the confidence that had been
placed in the prisoner at the*bar. He
had had some occasion to investigate the
surroundings and would say that com-
mittee had invested McCoombs with
even more authority than they had in-
tended. As assistant counsel he thought
the sentence of the court should be as
light as the surrounding circumstances
wouldipermit.

As a court officer Prosecuting Attorney
Carr thought the verdict of the jury was
arighteous one. While he did not wish
to cast any reflections upon the relief
committee, yet he felt that too much
temptation had been placed in the way of
the accused. This was especially true
when one considered the character of the
prisoner and his former associates. He
had no i fear gras! for McCoombs other
than one had for his fellow beings under
such circumstances, yet in his judgment
it was proper that the sentence shouid be
light, only such as would vindicate and
justify the law.

Judge Humes stated that he thought as
did the counsel, that the merey of the
court, in view of the circumstances,
should be extended. He took into con-
sideration the age of the prisoner and
other things that had been said in his be-
half. The court, he said, had been ap-
peenened before by parties claiming to
xe friends of the accused, and had asked
that mercy be extended in his behalf,

During the progress of the speeches
and the court’s remarks before passing
sentence McCooms stood erect with his
hands crossed in front of him. He wore
a solemn expression of countenance, and
as the court pronounced the term he
hung his head and seemed most moved
to tears.
