His Feet were sore

An Excuse offered by Relief Agent McCoombs

More Bogus Endorsements.

His Peculiar Methods of Handling the
Relief Funds Exposed.  He is Discharged

The Investigation into the charges against 
Secretary J.P. McCoombs, of the relief 
committee, was resumed yesterday afternoon
at the relief committee headquarters,
corner of Third and Cherry streets.  Messrs.
G.H. Heilbron, Griffith Davies and John
Leary, of the relief committee, Secretary
McCoombs, his attorney, R.B. Albertson,
Detetive Bolton Rogers, Police Offiicer J.L.
Barck and a half dozen press representatives
were present.

Mr. John Leary presided and called the
meeting to order at 2 o'clock.  He stated
that the charges of having appropriated money
given to needy people had been made
against Secretary McCoombs, and that the
committee proposed to investigate them.
He announced that the committee would
probe to the very bottom of the case.

Secretary McCoombs was then called upon
for a statement.  He first detailed the 
circumstances of the Seller case.  He denied
emphatically having retained $10 of the $20
given to Mrs. Seller.  In answer to the 
questions of Mr. Heilbron, Secretary McCoombs
made the following statements:

"I have never taken part in a gambling
game since I accepted my present position.
I frequented the Whitechapel district because
I desired to know the batitues of that place, so
in case they were ever came up for relief I would
know how to act.  I am absolutely certain that I 
gave Mrs. Seller $20."

“Where did you live before you came
here?” asked Mr. Heilbron.

"In Portland."

"What did you do there?"

"Well--"

Here Mr. Albertson sprang to his feet
with his first objection. “The committee,”
said he, “was satisfied with Mr. McCoombs
when he was hired and I do not think it
right that you should at this late date be-
gin toenquire into his past life. Of course,
Mr. McCoombs bas nothing to conceal, but
still such a question is not pertinent.”

Mr. Helbron explained that his object
in asking the question was to ascertain
whether Secretary McCoombs was a proper
person to continue in the employ of the
com mittee or not.

Mr. Albertson and his client retired for
a moment's consultation and when they
returned the matter was dropped, and
Secretary McCoombs continued to answer
to questions from Mr. Heilbron.

“I came here two years ago from Port-
land. 1 fended bar in the Arlington cafe
for six months, and was then iaid up for
four months with a sore Wrist. When I
became weil I returned to the Arlington in
the old capacity. Just after the fire I was
employed by Bolton Rodgers to work for
the relief committee. My instructions
after I accepted the secretaryship from
Governor Ferry and Jadge Lewis were to
go out and hunt up fire sufferersin need
and relieve them. I never drew a cent for
any one without the consent of the com-
mittee or some of its members, All! orders
for groceries were either drawn on Clarke
& Carder or Haley & Gien, It isa fact that
in many instances where I had a check tor
$20 with which to buy groceries that I took
part of the amount in groceries and the
rest in cash. This I did where families 
required medicine, wood or shoes which
could not be bought at the grocery
store. Occasionally I took the change
to the people myself, but generally
sent it by the grocer. I did not know that
such action was in direct violation of the
committee's orders. I never appropriated
a cent of that money myself. I cashed
checks, as in the case of Mrs. Seiler, 
frequently when the party to whom it was
drawn desired me to, and only cashed
when the beneficiaries endorsed them. I
never concealed the amount of a check
from any one. Ido not see why all of the
beneficiaries would not come here and tes-
tify that they received all that the commit-
tee’s order called for. I did not know that
it was directiy contrary to the committee's
wishes to cash these checks. I deny again
having ever retained a cent on a single
check issued, or ever having received a
cent of commission from any one. I never
gave groceries to rich abandoned women
as charged, and I will say that that teams-
ter who made that statement must have
heen bribed todo so. I have never been
drank or nader the influence of liquor while
in the employ of the committee. I have never
gambled since I entered your employ.  I
will say, however, that I was once an 
inveterate gambler. I never sent in reports 
bearing fictitious names, and I think that
I ean tind all of the beneficiaries who 
received anything during my time here.”

Secretary McCoombs was here excused
and Detective Bolton Rodgers called to the
stand. In answer to Mr. Heilbrou's questions,
 he testified as follows: “I was selected 
after the fire by Judge Lewis, acting
upon the surgestion of J, H. McGraw, to
do police duty and was allowed ten men.
Mr. McCoombs was one of the first that I
appointed among those ten. [had known
him then about two years. I never heard
anything against him, and never knew of
his gambling, At the request of the mayor
1 have looked into this case some. but I
find nothing erminal. I took thirreen
Cases that were acted upon during the past
month and detailed Officer Barck to look
them up.”

Detective Rogers then read Officer
Barck’s report, which was as follows -

Mrs. O.G. Wi'liamea, 1085 West street, received
$20 on April 15. I can find no such person.
Mrs Moroney, Washington street, between fourteenth
and Fifteenth streets, received $20 worth
of groceries on April 7. Received the groceries,
but does not remember signing any paper.

In answer to a question from Mr. Heilbron, 
Secretary McCoombs stated that she
had indorsed the check, and he had cashed it.

Mr. Davies agreed to investgate the matter. 
Rogers then went on with case No 3.

R. G. Wileon, 1202 Cedar street, received $20
worth OF groceries April 18. Found no such
number on the street.

The application was produced, and
Scress the back Was written:

Mr. Heilbron: 1 just returned from investigating 
this case, and think  it deserving.
- J.P. McCoombs

"Then you went out to this address Mr
McCoombs, did you?" asked Mr. Heilbron.

No, sir," anewered the secretary’. and
for the first time during the investivation
he seemed agitated. He shifted nervousiy 
in his seat, his face changed color, and his
eyes sought the floor.

"Then," said Mr. Leary. “you desired
to make Mr, Heilbron believe that you
had been to that address, did you?

"Yes, sir." came the answer rather
slowly.  "You see my feet were sore and
I did not want to walk out to that house.
I am not in the habit of doing as I did in
that case very frequently."

Detective Rogers then proceeded with 
the reading of the report.
