TILE FUGiTIVES CAUGHT

Defaulier Albertson and His Ac-
complice. Chandler, Found
in Gregon.

.
A Wiid Chase Through Mountains in
Coos County, Where They Were
Brought to Bay.

Albertson Shot, but Only Slightly
Injured, While Attempting to
Draw a Revolver.

Nearly All the Stolen Money Recovered.
Chandler Intimates That More
Surprises Are in Store.

The arrest of Albertson and Chandler
created a flutter of excitement in this
city yesterday, and owing to the meagre
information received, all sorts of rnmors
were started in circulation. Detective
Sullivan was the first man in the city to
receive intelligence of the capture.
Early yesterday morning he was handed
atelegram by the clerk of the Tacoma
hotel, which read as follows:

“Lampkins and others arrested Al-
bertson and Chandler last night. Shot
Albertson in making arrest, as he re-
sisted, but he is not seriously hurt. Will
haye to remain here some time. Deputv
Sheriff Cochrane took possession of
everything, but has not counted the
money yet. Chandler will be brought
in from Drain.”

The dispatch was signed Ives, who is
the chief operator of Thiel’s Detective
agency at Portland. President Wallace
oi the Fidelity Trust company received
a similar dispatch shortly afterward,
Both Detective Sullivan and his assist-
ants and the bank officials were in
receipt of congratulations all day long.
Sullivan left late last evening on the
train for Portland, where he will
meet the officers who have Chandler in
custody. No time will be lost in bring-
ing the prisoners to this city. Sheriff
Price left here last night for Olympia,
where he will secure requisition papers.
He will return to-day, and will probably
leave to-night for Portland in company
we Deputy Sheriffs Croake and Dag-
gett. 3

The capture of the two fugitives was
one of the shrewdest and most clever
pieces of detective work in the history
oi the coast. The fugitives had a start
of about thirty-six hours, and every-
body but the detectives had little hope
that they would ever be arrested and
brought to trial. The friends of the de-

faulter were confident that he had suc-
cessiully eluded the efforts of the officers

to find him. Immediately after the
defalcation was made known to
Detective Sullivan he — endeavored

to procure a photograph of Albertson.
He could not secure one in Tacoma and
he telegraphed to Thiel’s agency at St.
Louis to have men_ sent to Council
Blutis, Ia., where Albertson formerly
resided, for the purpose of seeing if one
could not be found in that city. Two
detectives were sent from St. Louis and
after a diligent search they secured two
photographs of the defaulter. One of
them was taken while ne wore only a
moustache and the other, which was
more recently taken, showed him with a
beard, and was an excellent likeness of
the man ashe appeared while in the
employ of the trust company. Both
were cabinet size photographs. They
were sent to Detective Sullivan and
he had 250 copies of each taken. In the
meantime he had secured a complete
and minute description of the missing
man, which was printed on large post-
ers. Oneach poster one copy of each of
the photographs was posted, and be-
neath them was the announcement in
large letters that a reward of $500 was
offered for his arrest.

The copies of the description of the
man, together with the photographs,
were scattered all over the coast. Near-
ly every township and hamlet in Wash-
ington, Oregon, California, Alaska and
Mexico received copies of them, and a
number of copies were sent to various
sections of South America. This work
having been done, Detective Sullivan
was satisfied that Albertson could not
getout of the country, and that his
capture was only a@ question
of time. The result of the
distribution of the photographs was soon
remedied, but, as usual in such cases,
there were many men who resembled
the principal fugitive enough to cause
them to be watched by detectives and
men who were ambitious to pose as
stars in the detective firmament. False
clues were presented to the officers to
follow through thiscause, but at notime
were they long in discovering that they
were on the wrong scent. Detective
Sullivan was constantly in receipt of
telegrams detailing the movements of
his men, and he displayed his shrewd-
ness and knowledge of his business by
his management of affairs even while en-
tangled in the meshes of interference due
to circumstances connected with the
trial of R. B. Albertson and other inci-
dents.

The first definite information in regard
to the defaulter was received by Sullivan
on Saturday, September Sth, two weeks
after he had fled. The dispatch was
from Sheriff Cochrane of Eugene City,
and stated that some one had been seen
near Coos bay who seemed to answer the
description of the fugitive. Sullivan
wired the sheriff to waste no time in in-
vestigating the matter. A day or two
later another dispatch was received stat-
ing that the men were at Coos bay and
Sullivan immediately sent two of his
men there. Charles E. Lampkins, who
is well known in this city, and two other
trusted and experien men were sent
on the mission from Portland. The
section where the men had been seen on
Coosbay is exceedingly wild. the
nearest towns being Empire City, Marsh-
field and Eugene. The following is a
town of something less than 500 in-
habitants. It has a money order post-
office and an office of the Wells-Fargo
Express company. It is in an out-of-
the-way place, one where the fugitives
could probably rest secure for some
time had they not been traced directly
tothe spot. Empire City is about forty
miles from Roseburg, the nearest rail-
road, and has direct communication by

ith San Frantiseo, by means
Ce Steamship compa
larger town.
ctives from Port-
Eugene, s

that a handkerchief
heen found at Eugene,
wrobably belonged to Al-
ber 5 onas Officer Lampkins
reached gene he telegraphed to Sulli-
van that the two men who were sup-
posed to be Albertson and Chandler had
gone on beard the schooner Euneh,
which was loaded with Iumber and
bound for San Pedro, Cal. Her cargo
w consigned to T. R. Nolan of that
pla Detective Lampkins also sent
almost everything imaginable concern-
ing the vessel and her officers, Detec-
tive Sullivan at once wired his men in

San Francisco to go to Pedro,
and, if necessary, to charter a
tug boat to go from San
Pedro to meet the schooner on

which the men_ were supposed to be,
Manager Ives of the Portland agency
started tivo men to assist Lampkins and
his associates. On September 10th,
fhursday last, Lampkins notitied Sualli-
van that the men had not left on the
schooner, as had been suppesed, but
were on Coos bay,and were trying to
buy a vessel. Lampkins had also sent
word to Sheriff Cochrane at Eugene to
wire Sullivan that he needed help, as
the fugitives had gone upinto the moun-
tainsin a particularly rough section,
and in consequence the work of following
the men was made exceedingly hard, as
well as dangerous. Sullivan wired
Sheriff Cochrane to organize a posse to
go to the aid of his men, and to see that
the fugitives were captured at all haz-
ards,

No further tidings were received from
the prisoners until yesterday morning,
asthere were no telegraphic facilities
within twenty-five or thirty miles. Sul-
livan telegraphed to the sheriff to go to
Empire City on horseback, and to take
horses with him for Lampkins and his
men, His advice was acted upon, and
resulted in the report of Albertson and
Chandler’s arrest. Shortly after the
receipt of the first dispatch, Detective
Sullivan received the following telegram
from Empire City:

“Albertson and Chandler were cap-
tured last night five miles south of Gard-
ner. The man who had been acting as
agent for the two absconders in procur-
ing for them food and supplies was dis-
covered by Operator mpkins and
foreed by him to betray the defendants
into his hands, They were led to be-
lieve that by meeting this agent on
Umpqua river last night at 10 o’clock
that be would conyey them to the south
side of the river, thus enabling them to
proceed south by way of the mountains.
Lampkins with three brave men pro-
ceeded to the place appointed and laid
in'wait. Soon Albertson and Chandler
appeared and ag they stepped upon the
beach, Lampkins covered them with a re-
volver in each hand, calling upon them to
throwfup their hands. Chandler complied,
but Albertson stepped backward, at the
some time placing his hand behind him,
whereupon the marshal (referring to
Lampkins) fired at him, slightly wound-
ing him in the left side above the hip.
Merely a flesh wound. Both are now
prisoners at Gardner. As soonas Albert-
son is able to be moved the officers will
depart with the prisoners. Chandler is
very free in his talk, with a sort of
‘don’t-take-me-for-a-fool’ _ expression.
elbesuion is too much depressed to
talk.

The telegram was signed ‘C,”’ and
was from Sheriff Cochrane.

The exact amount of money found in
Albertson’s possession is said to have
been #6000, although dispatches from
Oregon place it at $10,000. Detective
Sullivan was elated when he was seen
by a reporter of the Lepcer yesterday
afternoon, although he said that he had
at notime doubted that the fugitives
would be caught. He detailed the
steps that were taken to capture them
and gave all the credit of the arrest tu
Sheriff Cochrane and Detective Lamp-
kins and their assistants. He laughing-
ly remarked in a sarcastic strain that
probably the officers had acted rather
roughly in their method of entrapping
the fugitives, and that it might have
been the proper way in the eyes of a few
pranting cranks to have handed them
invitations to accompany the officers to

rison. ‘The men who captured Al-

ertson and Chandler certainly deserve
a great deal of credit,’ said he. ‘They
worked hard and ina yery rough and
wild country many miles from civiliza-
tion. The fugitives were desperate, and
who can tell what they would have done
to escape arrest? They worked in the
face of many obstacles and haye re-

flected credit on themselyes. Sher-
iff Cochrane, who is an old ac-
quaintance of ours, is a _ brave

otticer, and has rendered us great assis-
tance. Great credit is due Manager Ives
of the Portland mey and our men
who were with mpkins. They all
worked faithfully. Special Agent Koch-
ersperger has also been of great assist-
ance tous, as_have the bank officials
who gave us all the assistance in their
power. Some of the money was found
on Albertson, but I do not know how
much,

“This has been one of the most com-
plicated and mysterious robberies ever
known on this coast, and I dare say
\in the United States. There have been
so many things which were liable to
bother us and interfere with the work
which the public knows nothing of. I
do not know of a case where there has
been so many complications. We began
the case on nothing; no clue except
that which naturally followed Chandler’s
visit to Brown’s point with the securi-
ties. We covered every portion of this
section with our men, and we also cov-
‘ered every port for China, Alaska, South
| America and Mexico. There was no
escape for the men as long as they kept
moving. They were bound to fall into
our hands. This man Chandler we
could have arrested seyeral times if we
had desired to. We could have placed
our hands on him several days ago. We
had him under surveillance, but we
werein no hurry to take him. We
wanted Albertson and we expected
Chandler to lead usto him. There was
nothing to be gained by being in a hurry
to place Chandler ina safe place. The
handkerchief and yalise found at En
gene satistied the officers that they were
on the right track.”

Before departing for Portland last
night Sullivan paid his compliments to
the newspapers that, having nothing
else to find tault with in the case, turned
their attention to making personal at-
tacks on him.

President Wallace. of the trust com-
pany, said last evening that the prison-
ers will be prosecuted to the full extent
of the law. He said that the agreement
signed by him to secure the return of
the securities would not be considered

even in the sligh degree.
| tion whatever
ceedings wiil be conducted in
|manner as if it did not exis
| never been s

N

tten

be paid to it, and pro-

e@ sar

nor had
