KIDNAPERS IN COURT.

Testimony Taken in the Case of Sulll-
van’s Man.

in the kidnaping of R. B. Albertson and W, E.
Bailey, was begun before Justice Von Tobel, in
Judge Rivers’ court-room, last The
cases of the trio—Suilivan, McKay Tsaac
Evans—all charged with assault and battery
on Albertson, were to have come up at 10 o'clock
in the morning, but as Judge Rochester, one of
their counsel, was engaged on acase in the

superior court, J. T. Ronald obtained a post-
ponement until 7 o’clock in t' evening in the
cases of McKay and Evans. had just been

At7 o'clock in thee upper room in
the old city hall, where the old counvil used to
wrestle with railroad and water-

yers, prisoners, witnesses and the general pub-
lic. At the counsel’s table were Judge
Burke, Prosecuting Attorney Miller,
his assistant, William Caldwell, George
Donworth and George Hyde Preston.
The prisoners’ counsel, Judge Junins Rochester
and J.T. Ronald, had supposed that the trial
was to take place in the criminal department of
the superior court and did not arrive nutil half
an hour late, accompanied by G. A. C. Rochester,
In a corner near the beuch sat Dr. J. 8. Klocher,
Sheriff Woolery, D. N. Baxter, Chief of Police
Rogers, with R. B. Albertson near their counsel,
and the accused, P. D. McKay and Isaae Evans,
at a little distance. The jury was at first com-
posed of T. D. Hinckley, B. F. Briggs, H. F,
Stratton, N. Chilberg, Amos Brown and R. IL,
Thorne. |

The defense demanded that both McKay and
Evans be tried together, claiming that the state
had agreed to that arrangement, but Mr. Miller
demanded that McKay be tried separately, and
the court so ordered. 3

P. D. McKay was called and pleaded not
guilty to the charge of assault and battery on
R. B. Albertson, a smile passing over his sinis-
ter face as he took a seat beside his attorneys,
Counsel then questioned the jury to ascertain
whether or not they were biased and
Mr. Ronald challenged Mr. Thorne because he
admitted that evidence would be needed to de-
stroy the opinion he had formed from the news-
papers as to McKay's guilt or innocence. The
prosecution allowed the challenge, and the de-
fense, insisting on six jurymen, Henry Van As-
sett was called, and after rigid examination ac-
cepted. The defense then claimed more
peremptory challenges and an argument
ensued between Messrs. Miller and Ron-
ald, the justice sustaining the former
challenge. Mr. Ronoid then asked for postpone-
ment in order that he might apply for a writ of
certiorari on this point, but he was again over-
ruled. The jury was then sworn and Judge
Burke came forward to deliver the opening
speech. Judge Rochester objected to his acting,
claiming that the prosecuting attorney had no
tight to employ extra counsel, but was over-
ruled. Judge Burke then opened the case on
behalf of the state, and briefly recited the facts
which it was proposed to prove, as already pub-
lished.

W. E. Bailey testified thata week ago last
Thursday R. B. Albertson and he were on the
way to dinner, on Third, between Marion and
Madison, when two men stepped up to them.
One of them, Evans, said to Albertson, “I want
you; Ihave a warrant for your arrest.” Albert.
sou said the warrant @s of no effect, as this is
King county, and itis a Pierce county warrant.
Evans then said he must go to Sheriff Woolery’s
office. Albertson offered to go to his own office,
Then Evans said be must go to the sheriff's of-
tice, and tried to foree him into a hack. Albert-
son wanted to walk, but they said they wanted
no notoriety, and we must get in the hack. In-
stead of going to the latter building they
drove down Third street, and said they were
going to the station.

Albertson then asked to seethe warrant again.
They drove past the station along the Grant
street bridge, McKay on the seat with the driver,
Sullivan and Evans inside the carriage.

Judge Rochester objected to any evidence as
to what happened before McKay got into the
carriage, but Judge Burke claimed that all were
acting In concert, and was sustained.

_along the bridge, we said the warrant was not
legal and we attempted to get out of the carri-
age, but they pulled Albertson back and choked

Fut up.”

Judge Rochester demanded that Mr. Bailey's
testimony cease when he had told of the assault
complained of, but Judge Burke said he in-
tended toshowa continuons assanit from the
time they gotinto the hack. Mr. Ronald said
the law did notcontempiste a continuous as
sault, but the court sustained Judge Burke.

Mr. Galley then proceeded: “Albertson put
his head out of the carriage two or
three times to enll passers-by, but McKay
and Evans pulled him beck into the hack. [I
saw aman on horecback beLind and asked him
to go to the nearest police station. After Mc-
Kay got in the carriage Albertson tried two or

three times to crawi out of the window and was
“dragged down by MoKay aud Evans, who said
