The Albertson Case

The Albertson trialis at an end, anc
Justice Sharp has held the accused fo
trial. As was pointed out by the justice
himself, this by no means implies tha’
he considers Albertson guilty. He sa
asa committing magistrate, to deter
mine whether the facts were such as t
create a reasonable suspicion that the
accused was guilty oi the charge.

His position, a difficult one at best
has been rendered more difficult by th
undercurrent of ill-ieeling that has beer
present throughout the trial, In the
minds of Alvertson’s friends the feeling
has been present that Seattle was de
fending itself against an attempted out
rage by ‘'acoma. This idea has beer
encouraged by the assertione and impli
cations of Mr. Bailey’s paper, the Press
Times. Any reasonable person has
known, however, that whatever else ma}
have been in the accusation, there was
no personal ill-feeling or local jealousy,

The feeling of irritation on the part o
Mr. Albertson’s friends has been quite
natural. Me. Albertson has enjoyed ¢
high position inthe community, not <¢
breath of suspicion has hitherto at
tached to his name, and he has gained
for himself the affection and respect o!
his friends. That he should be accused
of so infamous a crime, therefore, fills
them with indignation. They look upor
the whole proceedings as a violent per.
version of the forms of law to the com
mission of a grave outrage. The dis:
graceful manner in which the arrest was
made has tended to intensify this feel
ing.

But they should remember that the
law cannot be a respector of persons.
Edward Albertson, who has been proved
to be as cold-blooded and calculating a
scoundrel as ever lived, was also a
respected member of society before the
exposure came. Had he been accused
under similar circumstances his friends
would have been equally indignant.

The question in this examination has
been, do the facts brought out justify x
suspicion that R. B. Albertson was ar
accessory to the crime? The evidence
brought out the fact that when Chandle
came to him and asked to haye the
papers drawn up, he did not act as any
lawyer would ordinarily have actec
under the circumstances. A lawyer, i
he did not refuse to have anything to d¢
with it, would have brought the parties
together and tried to compromise it.
He would not have drawn upa pape
which he himself knew not to be
binding.

Then, although Chandler said the cor
poration could not do business until the
matter was fixed up, Albertson did no!
draw up the papers until the next day.
though he could have done it in half an
hour.

It was further shown that the ab
sconder referred people to R. B. Albert
son after he had fled, with the assur.
ance that their communications woulc
be held strictly confidential, that Chand
ler came into his office with a parto
the stolen money in his possession
after the fact of the theft had been pub.
lished in the papers 9nd‘he did nothing
to have him arrested, and that he re-
ceived a letter from Edward Albertson
after his flight which he destroyed fox
fear if would get him into trouble.

All this, of course, is merely circum.
stantial, and can be explained away.
But putting an unfavorable construction
on it is sufficient to raise a grave sus-
picion that he was implicated in the
crime. This being the case Justice
Sharp could do nothing but hold him
for trial, even though he himself thought
the trial would result in acquittal.

If he is innocent his positionis a most
unfortunate one. But he has brought
himself into it by acting in a suspicious
manner. It is not at all probable that
heenjoyed any of the benefits of the
crime. The worst interpretation that
can be placed upon his acts is that he
attempted to aid his cousin to get free in
order to save the name from public scan-
dal. Thisis an offense that most men
will be inclined to condone, but is none
the less a breach of the law that an ai-
torney should be the last person to be
guilty of, and if it has been committed
should be punished. It is also true,
however, that stronger evidence will
have to be presented than has yet been
brought out, if a conviction is to be
secured.

a en woe
