SULLIVAN'S OUTRAGE!

They Are Getting to be
Very Common Now.

KIDNAPED =IN DAYLIGHT.

.-And Driven to a Country Cross-
roads in Durance.

Where Does Sullivan’s Power End?—
Law Laughed at by a Burly
Brute. —

M. C. Sullivan, the ‘ detective,’ has
committed another high-handed outrage,
and one that will probably land him in
the penitentiary.

He attempted to kidnap W. E. Bailey.
publisher of the Seattle Press-Times,
and R. B. Albertson of the firm of
Preston, Albertson & Donworth, attor-
neys at law. Ed

Sullivan went to Seattle with a war-
rant for the arrest of Albertson, sworn
out in Justice Sharp’s court . B.
Wallace, and charging hin wit ving
received $9000 of the notes and _securi-
ties stolen from the bank by Edward
Albertson. In attempting to make the
arrest Sullivan was assisted by J. P.|
‘Kochersberger of Chicago, and Isaac |
Evans, a former policeman in this city.
‘the warrant was not countersigned by
any peace officer of King county and
was therefore without force there. |

The story of the kidnaping is told by
Albertson as follows: ‘‘We were on our
way to the Rainier club todinner, when
these men accosted us. This man Evans
placed me under arrest and shoved that
Pierce county warrant: under my nose.
‘They tried to push me into the carriage
which stood at the edge of the sidewalk,
and I resisted. Evans said that he was
x deputy sheriff of King county, and Sul-
livan spoke up and said he was one, too.
J asked to see his badge, but he said he
had none. Now I want to say that in
addition to kidnaping me: these men im-
personated officers, which is’ a crime,
also. Istill resisted and Mr. Batiey
counseled me to be quiet. I finally
agreed to. accompany them on condition
that | be allowed to consult. with my

artner. Mr. Preston, at. my office in the

faller block. ‘They agreed to take me
there and I, with Mr. Bailey, who in-
sisted then on accompanying me, entered
the carriage. Mr. Bailey exacted ‘from
Sullivan the pledge that we should
driven to the Haller block. _. ¢

“Once in the carriage the driver whip-
ped up his horses and drove at a rapid
rate iawn Third street. When we
passed Columbia street I saw that we
were not going to the Haller block but
thought they were taking me to ‘the
sheriff’s office. At Yesler avenue the
carriage ‘swung into South Fourth and
we were off for the Grant-street bridge.
They lowered the curtains in thé car-
riage to prevent anyone seeing us. I
yelled for help and tried to escape, but
it was of no avail. When I resisted I
was choked and my wrist cut.”” Here
Mr. Albertson exhibited a cut and lacer-
ated wrist and red-looking abrasion on
his neck, showing the marks of fingers.

Out on the Grant-street bridge I called
for help again, but no one could hear
me. We were driven rapidly, and it was
merely an accident that I succeeded in
attracting attention of the man who
brought the information to the city
We halted once on the road and there I
warned the hackdriver, who aided in
the outrage. Said I to-him: “Do you
know that you are participating in an
unlawful act?’ He repliee that ‘He had
his orders.’ I guess Sullivan gave them
to him. We reached Black River at
about 8 o’elock, and here we have’ been
ior three hours with nothing to eat and
prisoners. I had-.resolved to go on to
Tacoma and meet this charge, as my
telegrams show. I have friends there
and wired them to meet me.” eS

The carriage was driven to Black River |
Junction, the intention being to take the
kidnaped men to Tacoma, An alarm
had been given, however, by Mr. Brun-
sing, who had followed the carriage on
horseback, and Judge Thomas Burke
swore out warrants for the arrest of Sul-
livan and his party. Chief Rogers with
4 posse of police went-down on the train
to Black River Junction and there ar-
ro the party and released Albertson
and Bailey. 2

Sullivan and his detectives were later
released on bail. Hi P

S

