JURY SAYS “GUILTY.”

Kidnaper McKay Fined $50 and
$150 Costs.

THE CASE WILL BE APPEALED.

Sullivan’s Hired Man the First of the
Gang to Be Found Guilty—Edward
, Albertson’s Condition.

The second trial of P, D. McKay, one of M C.
Sullivan’s employes, who aided in the kidnap-
ingof R.B. Alberison and W. E. Bailey, on
September 10, was concluded before Justice Von
Tobel yesterday. The charge was assault and
battery, and the jury, after being out over three
hours, returned a verdict of guilty. McKay
was fined $50 and costs, in all amounting to $150.
He was given until today to pay his fine or file
& bond pending the hearing of the case, should
a2 appeal be taken.

When the case was calied for trial yesterday
morning, having been continued from Monday,
alarge crowd of spectators was on hand. It
was thought that W. E. Bailey would be re-
calied, but he was hot. The morning session
Was taken up with the hearing of the testimony
of Peter Brunsing and R. B. Albertson, which
Was virtually the same as was given at the for-
mer trial and which was published in the Posr-
INTELLIGENCER at the time. In the afternoon
Evans was examined for the defeuse. The argu-
ment of the attorneys on both sides lasted three
hours, and when the case finally went tothe
jury it was thought they would be buta short
time out. Their verdictis what was expected,
and met with the approval of all who heard the
testimony.

Sheriff James Price, of Pierce county, came
over yesterday to attend the trial of his deputy,
Isaac Evans, who is charged with assisting Me-
Kay and othersin the kidnaping. The sheriff
said: “I have just had a letter from
the men who are guarding and
hursing the absconder, Edward Albertson,
who was caught in Oregon. Two men are
watching him there. They say his wound is
healing rapidly and that hemay beable to
start by Friday, Still,I shall not order him
moved untila docto: furnishes a certificate
that no harm will result.

“The wound is closing, though a tube is kept
in at one end for drainage.

“Albertson is said to be anxious to get back to
Tacoma and appearat trial. He is talkative,
and he has frequently mentioned his accom-
plice, Chandler. He says nothing concerning
R. B, Albertson, of this city.’’

Detective M. C. Sullivan, who is also deeply
interested in the case, isin the city. “Really,”
he said yesterday, “I know nothing about the
absconder, Edward Albertson, who was captured
in Oregon. I have paid no attention to that
matter since our man was caught.”

