CHANDLER INPORTLAND

Locked Up in the Private Dun-
geon of Detective Sullivan.

ALBERTSON STILL IN BED.

Officers Leave Tacoma for Portland to
Bring Back the Prisoners.

The “Detective” Chief Wants All the
Credit of the Capture, But Won't
Let His Captive Be Interviewed—A
Valise Full of Money Kecovered.

———

Porttanp, Sept. 18.—[Special.]—George
E. ives, traveling manager of Thiel’s de-
tective agency, arrived in the city this
morning from Drain with Fred N. Chan-
dler, the confederate of Edward Albertson,
the defaulting cashier of the Taco-
ma_ Fidelity Trust bank. Chandler
was taken to Drain from Gardiner by
stage, and immediately after his arrival in
Portland he was hustled into a closed
hack and driven to the private office of M.
C. Sullivan, manager of Thiei’s agency in
this city. Here Chandler was kept all
day, and here he will remain a prisoner
until requisition papers arrive from
Olympia, when he will be taken back to
Tacoma. Detective Sulliuan refused to
let any one see Chandler, claiming that he
was sick and did not care to see any one
himself. Whether this is Chandler’s wish
or not cannot be known, for no one
can get near him. Several Portland
friends of the prisoner who are taking a
deep interest in the case, started out to
find Judge Shattuck tonight for the pur-
pose of suing out a writ of habeas corpus
for Chandler’s release. As Judge
Shattuck, however, lives some dis-
tance out of town they gave up the
project till morning when they
propose to secure his release. If the
requisition papers are not here by that
time they will get their man free without
question, for even Sullivan recognizes the
fact that he is illegally depriving Chandler
of his liberty.

Sullivan acted rather bull-headed when
approached in regard to the case today. He
first denied that he knew anything about
Chandler, and said he supposed that
an officer had taken him through
to Tacoma. When told that the reporter-
knew different, and that Chandler was in
the office at that moment, Sullivan came
down off his high horse and said the man
was very sick and did not want to be seen.

“Then,” said the reporter, “let me talk
with the officers. This is an important
case and the public are anxious to know
about it.” ~

“No, sir; the public can go to hell and
the newspapers be d——d. The public
don’t need to know anything about this.
This is my business, and I don’t tell any-
body my business.”

The reporter told him there was no need
of getting mad about the affair; the people
simply wanted the news, Sullivan then
blustered about like a mad bull, telling
how he had worked up the case. He
finally cooled down and said he would
think it over.

The reporter called again, and Sullivan
told him a long string of fulsome praise for
himself, but wouldn’t allow him to see
Chandler, who remains locked up in the
private office of this buildozing
detective, who imagines he has more au-
thority than the governor of the state. He
dared not railroad Chandler through
to Tacoma without a requisition,
and this is the reason for
Chandler’s present detention in this
city. Sullivan stated tonight that requisi-
tion papers are on the way here from
Olympia, and that they would be presented
to Governor Pennoyer tomorrow.

Albertson is still at Gardiner, under the
watchful eyes of a detective, nursing the
wound he received through the body by
refusing to throw up his hands when or-
dered to do so, ‘

Tacoma, Sept. 18.—[Special.]}—Deputy
Sheriffs Hicks, Croake and Daggett left to-
night for Salem to secure extradition
papers from the governor of Oregon for Ed
Albertson and Chandler. Two of the offi-
cers will start tomorrow from Salem to
Empire City to bring out Albertson, while
one will return to Portiand for Chandler.
Sheriff Price discredits the report
that Suilivan will bring Chandler
here, and he will have his man
proceed without regard to Sullivan’s
movements. Of course if Chandler chooses
tocome here voluntarily no extradition
papers will be required. .It is said he is
willing to come here without waiting tor
extradition papers. [tis said $6,000 was
deposited today in Portland to the credit
of the Fidelity Trust bank, that being the
bulk of the stolen money found in the pos-
session of the robbers,

MarsuFtexp, Or., Sept. 18.—A gentleman
just arrived from Gardiner gives the fol-
lowing additional news regarding the
flight and capture of Albertson and
Chandler. It seems that the fugitives had
been in the neighborhood of Florence, a
small town on the coast, about twenty
miles north of Gardiner and forty miles
north of this city. They had engaged a
room at the Hotel Florence, where they
stopped several days, and on their de-
parture paid the proprietor to retain their
room, but they never returned. They
secured supplies and started in a small
heat to some rendezvous on the Siuslaw,
where it is supposed they were supplied
With provisions at night by a party well
known to the authorities, and who had
gained the confidence of the fugitives and
was presumably under their pay. This
party was suspicioned by United States
Deputy Marshal Charles Lampkin,
ef Tacoma, who threatened him
with the law unless he gave all
the information in his possession regard-
ing the robbers, whereupon he betrayed
the robbers by telling them they were
not secure in their present location, and
advised them to find another hiding place
on the east side of Umpqua river, advising
them that he would leave the boat at a
certain point on the west side of the
Umpqua for their nse, and at the same
time he had arranged with the officers to
mneet themon the beach on the opposite
side as they crossed over and were making
alanding. They were captured as stated
in previous dispatches, Chandler ex-
pressed great disappointment as to the
way his plans were interferred with by
some other parties,as he had contem-
plated the purchase of a smail steamer
now running on the Siuslaw and putting
to sea, and says if they had ever gotten
on the ocean they would have had a bard
time capturing them. Ten thousand five
hundred and eighty dollars was secured
from a valise carried by Albertson. Al-
bertson is resting easy, but his wound
seems to be more serious than at first sup-

posed,
