REACHED PORTLAND,
Chandler ‘fg Rete With
Sullivan,

?

STORY OF THE AGREEMENT,

*

What Mr. Woodmansce Knows About
it—Albertsou still Laid Up—
Cohoon’s Trial.

PorTLAND, Or., Sept. 18--Ex-United
Siates Deputy Marshal Lampkins arrived
here this morning, having in charge
Fred Chandler, who with Edward Al-

bertson was arrested Wednesday near
|Gardiner, Or, Albertson was lett
jai Gardiner — in the care of
(|Deputy = Sheritf! Cochran, pending
the healing of his wound. Chandler was
met at the train by a reporter but re-
fused to be interviewed. Upon arrivil
here the officers secreted Chandler and
,itis not yet known whether they are
| yet in the city or on the way to Tacoma,
| PortTLaxp, Sept. 1S—it is now report-
| ed that the ofiicers took Chandler to the
| office of Detective M. C. Sullivan, where
| he is kept a close prisoner and ig not al-
: lowed to communicate with anyone.

THE AGREEMENT.
; It will be remembered by readers of
the News that in its first day’s report of
| the proceedings in the examination of
|R. B. Albertson, the statement was
‘made under the caption ‘* How Albertson
is Involved,” that it was rumored that
| the prosecution had obtained possession
of one of the agreements signed by Pres-
ident T. B. Wallace and that it was in
the handwriting of R. B. Albertson.
How near the truth this rumor was is
evidenced by the fact that on the follow-
ing day, one of the agreements signed by
| President Wallace was placed -in his
| hands and ig now in possession of the
Trust Company.
| The Post-Intelligencer this morning
| makes a statement reiative to this agree-
nent woich connects William Wooid-
;mansee, aticket seller for the Payet
| Sound Steamboat Association and tor-
merly a collector for the Daily Nuws.
Woodmansee’s story of how he can:
| into possession of this document as re-
lated toa News reporter is substantially
‘as follows:

“On the last day of August or the
|first day of September, I cannot say
definitely which, 1 received a letter, ia
which was inclosed a document, none
other than the agreement signed by
President T. B. Wallace agreeing not to
prosecute Chandler and Albertson. The
accompanying letter bore neither
signature nor initials, and the hand-
|writing I did not know. The letter
stated simply: ‘‘Iin case of accident to
me, you will know how to use this.” [
was puzzled to know what to do with it.
I presuined that it came from Chandler,
for Chandler had been loafing about the
wharf a great deal, fishing and telling
stories, and had before lesvine left in
my charge a valise, and this I had
turned over to detectives who visited
me. I told the detectives ali that I
knew concerning the case, and they wera
in possession of -every fact that I knew
that could in any way concern the cage,

|Chandler was almost a total stranger to
me, having been introduced by a man
whom [ knew in Portland some time in
| June.
| “When I received the agreement [
| rented 2 dox in the safe deposit vaults
‘of the Lidelity Trust Company and
placed the agreement there because I
'telt that it was like carrying dynamite
| to carry itabout on my person, 1 told
Captain Moffat about it and asked him
what [ ought to do before the examina-
‘tion ot R. B. Albertson. He said there
was no need of giving it to the bank, but
the next day he told Mr. Wallace about
it and Mr. Wallace came to see me and
Igaveit to him. IL have done every-
thing L could inthe interest of justic:.
I have not and never had apy connec-
tion with this business affair other the
I have stated and any statement er in-
timation to the contrary Goes me¢ ali in-
justice. -

“The agreement is drawn in pen and
ink and reads substantially the same,
with the exception that the blanks are
all Glled, as that which was read frota
the stenographer’s notesat the examuna-
tion. ‘Shere was only one agreement
instead of three as stated by the Post-
Intelligencer.

In reference to this same matter Pres-
ident Wallace said when interviewed
this morning: ‘Late Tuesday afternoon
Mr. Woodmansee handed me one of the
triplicate agreements that I had sigued
and handed over toChandler on Brown’s
point on August 24th. Mr. Woodimansee
informed me that this agreement had
been mailed to him and that he had
rented a box in the safe deposit depart-
ment of the Fidelity Trust Company ana
had placed the agreement in that box
ior safe keeping. The Posi-Tnteliigencer
correspondent misquotes ine in implying
that 1 believed \woodmansee had any
connection with the robbery.”

CHANDLER NOT BINaDALY.

The statement made in the Post-
Intelligencer that Hinsdale, the missing
Lake Park man, and Chandier are one
and the same person is entirely without
foundation. Hinsdale has returned to
the city and was present at the exam-
ination of Robertson. Mr. T. B. Wai-
lace said this morning that Hinsduie
had made one trip in tue interest of the
bank, but had returned and was now 12
the city and had been for several days.

: THE COHOON CASE.

When the Cuhoon case was called in
Justice Sharp’s court this morning an-
other postponement was taken [o 1
o’clock this afternoon, at which hour
it was postponed to next Wednesday on
application of the defendant’s attorney.

a ee

