NEWS OF NORTHWEST

Absconder Albertson Will Re-
turn in Two Weeks.

INSPECTOR BAIRD TO RESIGN,

The Y. M. C. A. Convention at Spokane
—Equalization of County Assessments
by the State Board.

ee

Tacoma, Sept. 24—{Spectal.]}—Sheriff Price re-
Ceived the following telegram from Deputy

Sherif Hicks:
Dratn, Sept. 24.7%

Albertson will be able to come ont in two
weeks. Leit Daggett there. Will be home to-
morrow 6 p. m.

This is the first authentic news Sheriff Price
has received from his deputies, Hicks and Dag-
gett, whom he sent to Gardiner with
requisition papers for Edward Albertson,
the robber of the Fidelity Trust Com-
Pauy bank, of this city. A repiy was
looked for three days ago, aud the delay in re-
ceiving it is sufficient in itself toclinch the be-
Hef that the country through which the officers
traveled is very rough, as they were instructed
to get definite information as to Albertson's con-
dition and report immediately.

Deputy Hicks’ telegram is welcome news to
many Tacomans who are confident that the
simple truth from him will completely
exonerate R. B. Aibertson, of beattle,
from any complicity whatever in the
Tobbery of the bauk. It was reported today
upon what was considered very good authority, |
that Albertson would die, that the 44caliber |
bullet entered the left side four inches to the
left of the navel, making a hole as large as a 25-
cent silver coin, and came out two inches |
higher, and that the physician who attended |
himsaid be would not live ten days at the most.
Also that the shooting was unnecessary. This
latter statement is corroborated by Chandler,
Albertson's accomp!'ice,

Sheriff Price says he has no doubt but that
Albertson will recover, beghuse he charged his
chief deputy, J. M. Hicks, with making a
searching inquiry into Albertson’s true con-
dition and not arrange to remove him unless
his condition fully warranted it. Hicks
was also instructed to allow Albertson all the
time deemed reasonably necessary to recover
sufficiently to undertake the journey. From
the fact that Hicks wires that Albertson will
be in a condition to be removed in two weeks
Price concludes that he is not at all liable to-
succumbs to the wound. ,

