YESTERDAY’S PROCEEDINGS

Mr. W. E. Bailey, of the Seattle Press
Times, is certainly a very close friend t
Mr. R. B. Albertson accused of com
plicity in the Fidelity bank robbers
Mr. Bailey did not allow Mr. Albertso
to get out of his sight yesterday. Di
Albertson go for a drink, Mr. Baile
jollowed. Each wore for a boutonnie
@scariet pink on the lappel of bis coat
each was clad faultiessly. Mr. Bailey’:
ace was impassive throughout and hy
looked nonchalently while his frien:
vas undergoing the fire of cross-exanut
ai Mr. Albertson on the contrar,
ery nervous, his restless eyes wer
xed at times as though upon spac
while he paused to select the best torn
ofareply to Snell’s questionings; h
twitched his mustache nervously an:
chaied in his seat as- Prosecutor Snel
made point after point against him o}
the cross-examination. ~

Both Messrs. Bailey and Albertso}
Were at the exposition last night. Mt
Lailey is a gentleman who evidenti;
enjoys a luxurious ease. He is nearly
3 ‘ quite, six feet in height, ani
Wears his straight light brown hai
brushed back off his broad forehead ii
tea careless iashion; his eves are 0
-zray, his face narrow and long and ;
drooping mustache only partially con
ceals expressive lips. Neither his chil
hor his mouth has any of the character
ste firmness and determination ex
Pressed in the corresponding features 0
his friend Albertson. ~His nose 1
Straight and long and his profile is at
admirable presentation of the perpen
dicular ag applied to the human coun
tenance; there is an entire absence 0
those horizontal lines that denote thi
sence of animality. His neck 1
but admirably poised; :
joulders broad, but every gesture 2
expressive of indolence rather than 0
Stength and vigor. He wears @ “blu
ton-coat,” loose fitting, and carries —
sins He would be calied,a handsom

an, :

Pee, oy “s

o

ripen tay 7 S-N~ ba

Albertson also carries a cane, but he
Wears a close fitting cutaway .coat of
Liack and light gray trousers; his face
is neither so long nor intelligent as his
trend s; he hay a narrow. forehead with
overhanging brews, while little gray
eves restlessly wander here and there,
Xemingly losing nothing within their
Tange; hisnose is short and retrousse,
‘nd under it a spare sandy mustache
With a decided curl at the ends. |
_ The chin is square cut, the lips firm
set and thin, and the whole face 18 eX:
Pressive of shrewd determination and
‘omlike persistence. A habit he has of
constantly twisting. the ends of his
Mustaché and of twirling his cane be-
Vays the nervous temperament of the
Live! his face is browned but has @
dy flush at the cheeks; his pd ga
‘at peculiar quality so sneer stic
uervous temperaments of “expressing
More quickly than any other fea’ po

‘ondition of the mind.
© circular expan:

ems to take its color fr

= of the man; now
again cheeriul and

