DETECTIVE SISTEM CONDEMNED.

An Eastern Idea of Its Existence—Salli-

van Ventilates His Idea.

Tacoma, Sept. 30.—[{Special.j—A prominent
Eastern capitalist, who has invested large sums
of money in the Sound country, is here from the
East, in which section, he said this evening to a
correspondent of the Post-INTELLIGENCER,
the reports published about the abduction
of private citizens and other acte of lawlessness
by private detectives, is bound to lessen confi-
dence, as regards the safety of property and in-
dividuals inthe Northwest. He referred to the
abduction of Messrs. Bailey and Aibertson at
Seattle, and commented at length upon the el-
fect upon law-abiding communities of such acts
of lawlessness. Many well-informed LEast-
ern people drawing their conclusions from
reports of such acts, naturally conclude that
instead of the respect that is shown the statutes
asarule in Washington, the residents thereof
were lawless themselves in a measure, besides
being ruled over by detectives who neither re-
spect the laws of the land nor the
people thereof. He held that it is
high time a stop was put tosuch outrageous dis-
turbances as the Seattle abduetion, and the per-
petrators of such deeds should be driven from
the state or be com pelled to become good citizens.

Detective Sullivan's attention was called to
the Eastern man’s state ment,

“Oh, the windy news rs cause all the
trouble,” he retorted. “I d the job in the
arrest of R. B. Albertson and would not have
interfered if the officer who had the warrant
had not Ft in trouble in getting him to go with
him, andif he had not got half a dozen thum
ers tostand handy tothump the arresting offi-
cers. In Seattle it all depends on whose ox is
being gored. Other? men have been arrested in
asimilar manner in Seattle,

“I'm going to give up the detective business
anyway,’ he continued, with a smirk. “Im
going into politics in King county. I’m going
to the state senate. Oh, that may seem ridicu-
lous, but [ may. The Knights of Labor, of King
county, receive me kindly, and [ can go up into
the mines and be elected by the hegro coal
miners in spite of any etfort to down me.”

The newspaper man laughed at the play of
Mr. Sullivan's ideas. Mr. Sullivan chuckled,

“The Seattle people thought Edward Albert-
son was going to tellagreat tale, didn’t they?
They seut Judge Stratton anda half dozen de
teectives down into Oregon to see that we didn’t
get anything out of him,” and Ssuilivan
laughed with his peculiar wheeze “If they are
so anxious about Albertson's condition, let a
few of them clubin and pay the doctor's bill
and pay for the excellent care we are givin
him. if wehad not taken such good care o
him he would have died, sure!”

Reference was made to the anti-Pinkerton
bill, and Mr. Sullivan took occasion to denounce
as a lie the statement that he had put up money
to secure its defeat by a veto. “The strike busi-
ness,’’ he said, ‘‘in our line 1s hagardous, costly
and don’t pay."’ He claims he sold his Seattle
property because he had a good chance to sell,
and not for the purpose of preventing the
county or citizens thereof from recovering dam-
ages in case of defeat in the abduction case,
