STARK GOES TO JAIL.

He Will Be Tried for the Murder of
Bloomstran..
- Taylor P. Stark, the Falls City grocer, who
- ghot and kilied Neis Bloomstran, the father of
the girl he wished to wed, was arraigned before
Justice Von Tobel yesterday morning at 9:30
o'clock and was held without bail to await trial
fin the superior court on a charge of murder.
- ‘The only startling feature of the examination
was the seemingly total indifference of the ac-
cused and Chesty Bloomstran, his i4-year-oid
- gwectheart, over whom the killing occurred.
‘Phe witnesses first arrived and by the time the
prisoner was brought in the small court-room
was crowded with a moticy, curious crowd. The
girl, who is a decided blonde and looks several
: years older than she really is, sat apart from her
- gtepmother and brother and would not so much
as notice them. It was plain her sympathies
- were not with her family; in fact she was there
in behalf of the defense. When the prisoner
was marched in, he stepped across the room and
| embraced and kissed the girl with a show of
affection. He is a middle-aged man with an un-
prepossessing countenance, in strong coutrasi to
the girl.

Stark was represented by Attorneys James
Hamilton Lewis and J. T. Ronald, and A. J.
McBride conducted the case for the state.

The defense offered no testimony. Four wit-
nesses were examined by the prosecution. Dr.
| Horton, coroner, testified esto the dead man’s
| injuries and the verdictof the coroner's jury.
- Frank E. Rolfe, a neighboring farmer, told how
he attended the wounded man in his dying
moments. The case really opened when Mrs.
 Bloomstran took the stand. She isan Amerit-

ean woman, rather good looking and about
years old. She was married but three years aro.
She told how her step-davghter Chesty had re-
turned from a visit to Falls City on the
afternoon of the murder accompanied
by Stark; bow Stars tela her and
her husband he wanted the girl and Bioomstran
pefused, because she was too young. Stark, she
paid, then called the girl and they ran down the
hill, her husband following. They were starting
up the next hill, when Stark turned and
tela Bloomstran to halt, and when
he failed to obdcy, fired, the bullet

striking him in the atiomen. Bloomstran

then fired, but missed, and Stark fired again, the
- bullet entering his breast. Stark then ran on,
a ied by Chesty, and Mrs. Bloomstran
helped herhusband home, where he died next

morning.
Nels Bloomstran, the boy, told the same story,
and all the efforts of Mr. Lewis failed to shake

his testimony.

oa