AFTER BAD WOMEN.

The Police Continue Their
Whitechapel Raid.

THEY WILL DEMAND JURY TRIALS

Hundreds of Men Display Prurient 
Curiosity at the Police Court—
“No Mere Gamblers.”

Since the edict went oct from the chief
of police yesterday monring that all houses 
of ill-fame and gambling places should be closed,
the officers have continued to wage war on the
disorderly element.  The officers confined their
energies to the women, for they herded them 
into police headquarters in droves, while only twelve
gamblers, all told, have been arrested.  Nine were
arrested early Friday afternoon and the three
remining ones were arrested yesterday morning.  Not
a gambler was arrested yestereday afternoon, although
the women continued to pour in all day, and were of
various nationalities; American, French, colored and
Japanese. Nearly all were of the latter nationality.

Among those arrested were eight colored women, twenty
Japanese, several French women from the French quarter, 
Whitechapel, and the following American women:  
Maud Curtis, Kate Hyman, Catherine Rapp, Cassie Bruswick
Sadie Carlisle, Carolie Sutherland, Myrtle A. Morrison and
Ella Villard.  All the women live in cribs in Whitechapel.

At the police court  the scene was beyond de-
scription. From Fifth street to Fourth on Yesler
avenue the welk was lined with toughs and |
loafers, while the courtroom was pecked to suf-
focation. It semed as if the whoie of criminal
Whitechapel had turned ont to see what the law
would do with the women.

The case of the gamblers was first called, but
through some misunderstanding not all were present.
Harry Morgan, S.P. Jones, and Ed Stewart, the last three
arrested, alone were in the courtroom.  Morgan pleaded
guilty and paid a fine of $50.  The two other men
asked for continuances, and together with the seven
gamblers who failed to show up were given until
Monday to plead.

When the case ageinsi the numerous women
were called - J.T. Ronald appeared for Lou Graham,
Georgie Willard, Carrie Goldsmith, Amber Clark and
Lottie Robinson.  Believeing that this case would take up
all the afternoon, the city attorney announced that all the
women, except the four on trial might go home, but that 
they would have to show up again in court Monday morning.
Immediately there was a commotion and the women went out 
chattering and talking excitedly together like so many 
magpies.  the crowd of men did not diminish, but quickly
filled in the places made vacant by the women, and more
from the street packed in.  Everybody stood up; ther was no room
to sit down.

When all the other women were gone, Mr. Ronald criticized
the complaints against his clients, but the city attorney said he
would run the risk of letting the cases go on the complaints as drawn up. 
Mr. Ronald then demanded a jury trial and wanted each woman tried 
separately.  Judge Rivers directed the clerk to prepare a list for
eighteen qualified jurors, and on motion the case was continued until Monday
morning at 10 o'clock.

The first woman to be tried is Carrie Goldsmith, an inmate of Lou Graham's
house. 

Emma Rivers and Alice Miller came into the courtroom in the meantime.  
W.V. Rinehart, Jr., represented the women and demanded a jury trial, and
the cases were continued until Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock.

Judge Miller expects the women-since nearly all have smployed attorneys-to 
demand jury trials, and thus he has weeks of work ahead of him.  He is
considering the punishment he will mete out to the disorderly persons when
found guilty.  He will fine the gamblers $50 for the
first time arrested and more each time thereafter.  He will not fine the women,
but will imprison them-first time arrested, five days, each time thereafter a longer
imprisonment.

When Chief monroe was asked yesterday why more gamblers were not arrested 
he said:
"there are no more to arrest.  All the games are closed to the public, and they are
doing nothing to be arrested."

L. Peterson, who owns fifteen cribs in Whitechapel, was arrested yesterday for
renting houses to disorderly persons.  He lay in jail nearly all day, when a woman 
called up and put up $100 bail for him.

The police have added a new feature to the methods of warfare employed against
the disreputable element of the city, by arresting the men who visit the houses of 
ill-fame as well as their inmates.  Last night John Stanton, John H. Hallquist and
Pat Keogh were locked up on a charge of visiting these places.

Among the notorious women arrested was Agnes Woodward, and she was locked up.

Chief Monroe says he intends to inforce the city ordinances.

The police commissioners say they want the ordinances inforced to the letter. 

How will it end?

