HE HAS SURRENDERED

The Cousin of the Defaulter
Comes to This City.

HELD IN BAIL FOR A HEARING.

Detectives Acted Properly in Trying to Arrest
Him,

The sensation created by the attempt-
ed abduction of R. B. Albertson, the
Seattle lawver, and cousin of the de-
faulting cashier of the Fidelity Trust
company of this city,and William E.
Bailey, the proprieter of the Seattle
Press-Times, on Thursday night, by De-
tective Sullivan and his assistants, had
not abated inthe least yesterday, and
the general trend of publie conversation
was denunciatory of the men who con-
cocted the scheme. Tue boldness of the |
attempt to bring the two men to this)
city against their will was hardly cred-
ited by some who were not familiar with
Sullivan. To add fuel to the sensation,
the charge has been unreservedly made
implicating Albertson with his cousin’s
defaleation, andthat Sullivan acted with
authority in attempting to bring him to
this city.

One of the early trains from Seattle

brought Albertson, Mr. Bailey, George
H. Preston, the former’s partner, and
Herman Chapin, president of the Boston
National bank of Seattle, to this city.

The quartet visited the Tacoma hotel,
where they met Governor Elisha P.
Ferry. They lost no time in visiting
Justice Harry Sharp’s court, being ac-
companied there by President’ C. P.
Masterson of the Pacific National bank.
The visit of the party was due to the
fact tha! the warrant which was held by
Deputy Sheriff Evans, who was with

ullivan, charges Albertson with being
an accessory to his cousin. The follow-
ing is a copy vf the warrant:
State of Washington, t ae

County of Pierce. -

In justice court, Tacoma precinct,
Pierce county, before Harry A. Sharp,
Esq., justice of the peace, to the sheriff
or any constable of .said county.
Whereas, T. B. Wallace has this day
complained in writing under oath to the
undersigned, one of the justices of the

e inand for said county, that on or
about the 22d day of August, 1891, at ——,
ia said county, R. B. Albertson did re-
ceive and conceal, or aid in the conceal-
ment of certain stolen property, to-wit:
Notes and other valuable securities of the
walue of $9000, all of which said notes
and securities were the property of the
Fidelity Trust company of Tacoma, the
said R, B. Albertson well knowing the
same notes and securities to have been
stolen, contrary to the form of the statute
in such cases made and provided, and
against the peace and dignity of the state
of Washington.

Therefore, in the name of the state of
Washington, you are commanded forth-
with to apprehend the said R. B. Albert-
son and bring him before me to be dealt
with according to law. ;

Given under my hand this 8th day of
September, 1891. Harry A. SHARP,

. Justice of the Peace.

When the party reached the court
Lawyer Preston asked Justice Sharp if
there was any charge of any sort against
Albertson. The justice answered affirm-
atively and read a portion of the war-
rant. As soon as he had concluded
Albertson said that he had voluntarily
placed himself in the jurisdiction of the
court and requested that an early day
be set for his hearing. Justice Shar
named Monday afternoon next an
Albertson was placed under bonds in
the sum of $5000. He was informed
that his personal recognizance would be
sufficient bond, but he preferred to file
bonds in the erdinary way and he did
80, his securities being Governor Ferry,
Mr. Bailey and Mr. Chapin.

After the papers had been signed the
party left and Albertson and his friends
returned to Seattle. In speaking of the
trouble Albertson took occasion to em-

hatically deny the charge against him.

e stated that he has been followed per-
sistently by detectives and that Sullivan
had tried to brow-beat him in the ho
of obtaining a confession as to the
whereabouts of securities which he de-
nied all knowledge of. He related the
story of the attempted abduction and
how it was frustrated, as told in the
Lepaer yesterday. The issue raised by
Albertson and hisfriends that Sullivan
or Deputy Sheriff Evans had no right to
serve a warrant in King county which
had been issued in some other county,
prompted Justice Sharp to say yester-
terday: ‘All this talk avout a Pierce
county warrant having to be counter-
signed by a King county authority be-
fore it can be served in King county is
bosh. The sheriff of King county can
serve a warrant in any county in the
state without reference to any other
authority. The arrest, so far as Albert-
son is concerned, was perfectly legal and
regular. Noreturn has been made on
the warrant as yet by the officers.”’

T. B. Wallace, president of the Fidelity
Trust company, was seen by a LEDGER
reporter yesterday afternoon, and he
said that the arrest was made in the
proper manner and that all talk of his
abduction is absurd. ‘‘We wanted Al-
bertson and I swore out a warrant for
his arrest. | Mr. Bailey was not wanted
and there has been no charge made

inst him. He appears to have forced
himself in the case. Detective Sullivan
has been employed by us to work out
this case and we are satisfied that he
understands his business. We do not
propose to conduct this matter through
the newspapers. Statements that the
bank has lost securities or bonds is not
true. Further than this I do not care
to say anything.”’
