BAILEY WAS KIDNAPED

The ‘Seattle Millionaire Abducted in Broad
Daylight.

THE RUFFIANS CAPTURED

They Were Detective M, C, Sullivan and
a Deputy Sherift-Two Wealthy Citi-

zens Brutally Treated.

SEATTLE, Sept. 10.—The city is
thrown into the wildest excitement by
the kidnapping of William E. Bailey,
the young millionaire, and R. B, Albert
son, his attorney, this afternoon by De-
tective M.C. Sullivan. Although: the
abduction was made at 5:30 o'clock on
Second street, when it was crowded, no
facts are obtainable and the where-
abouts ofthe men are unknown, al-
though it is supposed the party is hea‘-
ing for Tacoma. Bailey is the young
man whose father isa millionaire of
Harrisburg, Penn. Young Bailey is
worth at lest $2,000,000, He is the
owner of the big Harrisburg block here,
and the president and director of sev-
eral banks and a large owner of real es-
tate. He is also owner of the [ress-
Times, Albertson isa second cousin
of Albertson, the absconding cashier of
the Fidelity Trust company, of Tacoma
and it 1s supposed Sullivan abducted
him in order to get some information
about the absconder.

The kidnapping occurred at 5:30.
Sullivan enticed the two men into a
closed carriage and it is supposed held
a revolver at their heads until they
were out of the city. When the cab
was two miles 6ut of town, Bailey and
Robertson were calling for help, but
Sullivan threatened to shoot whoever
attempted to rescue them, <A rumor
has been circulated that Dailey is sus-
pected of having securities stolen from
the bank in his possession. A posse of
Sean: and deputy sheriffs are out on

orseback chasing the hack, and a
special train with over one hundred
leading citizens has started for Ta-
coma. ;

It is learned that Sullivan drove to
Black River junction, nine miles dis-
tant, where the hack was dismiased.

Detective Sullivan and his two depu-
ties were captured at Biack River
Junction on the arrival of the train
there at 11 o'clock by Chief Rogers and
a seg of special deputies, and the
whole party has just returned on the
regular train from Tacoma. Albertson
and Bailey were brutally treated and
bear marks of choking and handcuffs.
Sullivan had a Pierce county warrant
for Albertson, oy hg him with hay-
ing knowledge of his cousin’s where-
abouts. This warrant was not endorsed
by the King county ofticials.

Sullivan and his men caught Albert-
son and Bailey as they were going to
dinner at the Rainier club aad one of
them told Albertson he had a warrant
for his arrest. Albertson demanded to
see the warrant. The detect-
ive said: “Get into the hack and
we will drive to your office.” Bailey
offered to go with his friend,
but the detectives demurred to
Lo but finally both Albertson and
Bailey got into the carriage. The doors
were shut andthe two armed detec-
tives held and choked their prisoner
while the hack was driven away
bse rp the heart of the city, and not
until they had reached South Seattle
Were the violent hands taken off. Then
Bailey and Albertson commenced cry-
ing for help. They forced the window
open and passers-by recognized them
and gave chase. Sullivan, who was on
the box with the driver, drew a revol-
ver and made the pursuers turn, at the
same time saying to Bailey, “pat your
heed in that window or I'll blow it off.”
The deputies again treated their vic-
tims roughly.

The party droveto Black River Junc-
tion, where the driver rebelled and the
party left the carriage to wait for the
train. It happened to be two hours
late, and when it did arrive Chief
pene was aboard, with Judge Burke
and fifty others. Sullivan at first re-
fused to be arrested, but finally gave
up. The whole party returned. Bailey
was not wanted at all, but was teken
because he was with Albertson. sul-
livan and his deputies have been put
in the county jail and can’t get bonds.

