THE DEFAULTER'S STORY

Edward Albertson Tells a Reporter How He
Came to His Ruin

FAST HORSES THE CAUSE

The Unfortunate Man Details the History
of His Crime—How He Was Captured
The Bank Loses Nothing.

Tacoma, Oct. 19.—Edward Albert-
son, the Fidelity bank robber, arrived
here this evening and is now in the
county jail. In an interview he said:
“My one regret is that I did not go to
President Wallace, of the Fidelity bank
when I become involved at the start,
make aclean breast of it, and depend
upon him to help me out. Had I done
that I think Mr. Wallace would have
made some arrangement by which I
could after a time come outall right.
This has been my first mistake and I
hope the last. Itis for my wife and
child that I grieve, With me I don’t
care what they do, but I hate to see
them suffer on my account. There has
been alot of lies told about mein re-
lation to the cause for my act. The
main reason why Iam a criminal to-
day are the fast horses which 1 owned
in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and
which got me in debt, and also my at-
tempt to live up with my asso-
ciates. ‘he stories about women
and gambling are all lies, as is the
story that I stole $500 the first week I
was engaged inthe bank. ‘The horses
involved me. I went into crime in Ta-
coma, and while residing there I lived
in a higher style than my income would
allow, which made my delving into
crime so much greater. Finally I be-
came so involyed that it meant ruin
any way; then I made the big steal,
started off with it and here I am a pris-
oner, with a long life within prison
walls before me. In the robbing of the
bank there was no one concerned but

Chandler and myself.”
When asked to tell the story of his
‘movements after the robbery on the
night of Saturday, August 22, Albert-
son told the following story: “After
the robbery I took a train and went to
Puyallup, where, by Seat,
I met Chandler, to whom I delivered
the agreements to be signed by Presi-
dent Wallace at Brown’s Point. I took
the train for Portland the next morn-
ing, then went to Eugene and
then to Florence and stayed in
that section of the country
all the time under the name of E. How-
ard Johnson. A week later I met
Chandler at Hales, about fourteen
miles from Gardiner, and turned the
$3,000 over to him to take to R, B. Al-
berison, for him to send it back to the
bank. Chandler weut back to Seattle
and saw R. £. Albertson, who refused
to have anything to do with the money,
and then Chandler found out that de-
tectives were on his track. He then
slipped out and came back and in-

formed me.

“In Seattle he had in his possession

the three agreements. One of them he
sent toa man named W. Woodmansee
at Tacoma, and the others he mailed to
E. Howard Johnson at Empire City,
but they would not deliver it to me.
Chandler gave me the other agree-
ment, which Detective Sullivan
got later. When we were captured
we were going over the mountains.
The half-breed, John Garnier, whom
I had paid $250 to help us to escape,
took $100 additional from our ‘pur-
suers and betrayed us. The shooting,
I think, was uunecessary. I did not
understend when the officers shouted
to hold up our hands, as lam slightly
deaf. When they shouted I was stand-
ing with one hand over the other on
my stomach.. The cry so surprised me
that my hands dropped limp by my
side, The muscles in the vicinity of
the wound have been paralyzed, which
gives me more trouble than anything
else.”
(| He said he sent Chandler to his
cousin for the agreements “for a
friend,” because he knew of no one
better. He had thought of several law-
yers, but concluded to send it to him.
“I wrote a letter to my cousin on the
night of the robbery,” went on Albert-
son, “telling him that I was in trouble,
but I don’t know just why I sent that
letter. I wanted to write to somebody,
that’s all. The Fidelity bank did not
loose any money except what was
spent in hunting us up, My insurance
bond for $10,000 and the money found
upon me covers their loss.”

As to the stealing of the securities
Albertson intimated that he thought
the bank would compromise and keep
the matter quiet and then he and
Chandler could return to the city and
live as though nothing had happened.
Their ideain going to the country in
which my 5 were captured was to camp
out, and if necessary skip the country,
to remain there until their appearances
were so changed that they could get
away without being recognized. Al-
bertson intimated that Chandler's ad-
vice had much to do with urging him
to the robbery, Reference to his wife
and child visibly affected the prisoner.
He said his wife did right in going
away, as it would not be right, after
what she had suffered, to meet him in
jail.

