SUULIVAN AT THE BAR,

The Jury Struck for the Trial
of the Kidnapers.

ALBERTSON GIVES HIMSELF UP.

Tacoma (Officials Defend the Action
of Their Deputy Sheriff.

Wallace and Snell Promise Dread Kev-
elations—Mysterioas Letter to the
¥Embezzler’s Wife—Lawyers’ Views of
the Case —Albertson After Vengeance.

—_—

Yesterday afternoon M. C. Sullivan, McKay
and Isaac Evans, who kidnaped R. B. Albertson
and W. E. Bailey on Thursday afternoon, were
brought before Justice Von Tobel for a hearing.
They demanded a jury trial,and so the jury
was struck andthe case continued until Tues-
day afternoon at 1 o'clock.

‘The case was set for 1:3) yesterday afternoon,
but at about 1 o'clock a telegram was received
from Sherif? James Price and Prosecuting At-
torney W. H. Snell, of Pierce county, that they
wished to be present at the trial, and that they
would arrive in Seuttle at 3o’clock. Accord-
ingly there was a postponement unti! that bour.

When the time came the dark little room in
the back of the Butler block, where Justice
Von Tobel holds court, was crowded to the ut-
most, and the ante-room was filled with men
pushing and striiggiing to get into the court it-
self or to catch a glimpse of the prisoners. The
pressure finally became so great that an officer
had to clear the doorway, but it soon filled up
again and the jam was worse than ever.

People in the alley on which the windows of
the court open vainly tried to peer in, but the
silis were too high above the groand to enabie
them tosee much. A row of heada appeared in
the trausom over the side door of the court; for
gome were evidently standing outside on chairs
aud crauing their necks to get sight of the pro-
ceedings.

In one corner by the window sat Justice Von
Tobel before asmall table eovered with green
oil cloth.e On atable in front of the other win-
dow sat R. H. Goldie, swinging his cane and
every now and then tapping the floor. Beside
him were W. C. Heilbron, Erastus Brainerd and
Abrem Barker. Standing uear, among the
interested spectators, were D. A. McKenzie, G.
A. C. Rochester, C. T. Tyler and KR. C.,Wash-
burn,

Directly in front of the desk of the justice the
prisoners’ counsel, J. T. Ronaid and Junius
Rochester, were in consultation. Near them
stood Prosecuting Attorney John F. Miller and
Albertson's counsel, Judge Thomas Kure, with
two lnw books under his arm; (reorce Hyde
Preston, keen and decided, and George Don-
worth. Albertson himself was evidently fa-
tigued, but somewhat excited, while Mr. Bailey
‘Was as serene as ever, and laughed and talked
nonchalantly to his iriends.

In another group were Sheriff James H.
Woolery, Sheriff James Price, of Tacoma—red-
cheeked and joly—end the Pierce county prose-
cuting attorney, W. H. Sneli—a short man,
rather thick-set, with dark complexion, keen
but pleasant eyes, and a heavy, dark mustache.

The three prisoners leaned against the wall
near Justice Von Tobel. Sullivan, in spite of
his long experience in detective work, was de-
cidedly nervous. His cheek was flushed, and
he spoke hurriedly, even though be wore his
customary sinile. He is a heavy man with a
slight stoop. His mouth is completely covered
by a heavy grayish brown mustache, aud he
looks at you from half-shut eyes. Evans is
about 5 feet 10 inches tall, weil built, bat with a
mall head. He basa light complexion, promi-
nent nose and light mustache. Were McKuy to
appear on the stage he would be recognized
atonce asa perfectiy made up Italian brigand
or desperado. He is tall—nearly six feet—and
his complexion fs very dark, His chin is prom-
inent, but his mouth, with its thin lips, is al-
most hidden by a long black mustache, curling
slightly at theends. A long, pinched, aquiline
hose stands out on his face like the inverted
prow of a vessel, while smail black eyes, set
very close together, give him an uncommonly
mean and sinister look. Usually he wears a
light-colored broad-brimimed slouch hat.

A few minutes after 3 o'clock the judge rapped
for order.

“We demand @ jury trial for our clients,” said
Mr. Ronald.

“For ali?”

“Yes, for all three.”

“Well, your honor,” interposed Prosecuting
Attorney Miller, “I suppose we may as weli
strike a jury and let the venire issue so that the
trial may be held at ouce.”

This was agreed to and the following jury list
produced: T. H. Whitworth, Z. C. Miles, W. 1.
Pumphrey, B. F. Briggs, C. W. Saunders, Join
Cowrey, H. Hershberger, N. Chilberg, I. F.
Stratton, T. D. Hinckley, Daniel Jones, Amos
Brown, R. C. Crawford, Frank Manford, H. BR.
Kemp, R. L. Thorne, O. N. Morse and John Col-
lins—all of them men of repute and standing.

The - counsel then proceeded by tnrn to
Strike off names until but six were left. As the
coun’! consulted over the list the crowd
would sway toward them in an etlort to catch a
word o: get sight of the paper. One after an-
other the names were dropped until B. F.
Briges, N. Chilberg, H. F. Stratton, T. D. Hinck-
ley, Amos Brown and RK. L. Thorne were left.
The state had stricken off John Cowrey, H.
Hershberger, Daniel Jones and H. R. Kemp,
while the defendants had croesed off 1. H. Whit-
worth, Z.C. Miles, W. H. Pumphrey, C. W.
Saunders, R. C. Crawford and Frank Hanford.

Justice Von Tobel delivered the list to the
sheriff, and said he would make the summons
returnable today at i o'clock.

“Will your honor please rmaake it 9:30 tomor-
fow morning,” asked Mr. Miller, “We want the
Case tried as speedily as possible.”

J.T. Ronald and Junius Rochester, who were
afraid to bring the three thugs before a jury
while popular indignation ran #0 high, fought
foradelay. Ronald urged that he had a motion
fo court this morning which he must argue. He
Feally couldn't take up the case todar,

Albertson next insisted that his counsel
should bave the trial as soon as might be.
Ne was due at the Taeoma court Monday
morning, so he could pot appear then.

One bonr ailter another was suggested, but
either Ronald or Rochester claimed to be un-
able to appear, and so the case was finally set
for Tuesday afternoon at 1 o'clock.

Then Justice Von Tobel said he would con-
tinue the bond, and dismi+sed court.

The crowd swarmed like flies from a trap
into the open air, and gathered in knots on the
e dewalk to discuss the affair.

Albertson with his counsel
room.

it is more than likely that other charges,
more serious than the ones on which the pris-
oneres are new held, will be entered against
them,

weut to his

ALBEKTSON UNDER BONDS.

He Surrenders to Justice Sharp —-Ta-
coma Officials Defend the Arrest.
Tacoma, Sept. 11L.—[Spectal.}—R. B. Albertson,
W. EF. Bailey, George Hyde Preston (Albertson's
partner) and Herman Chapin, presideut of the
Roston National bauk, of seattle, arrived hereon
the rst boat from Seattle this morning and
were for an hour the center of an interested
rroup of friends at the Tacoma hotel, receiving
auy Cobgratulations on their escape froia
duress, They met Governor Ferry in the lobby
sud discussed the affair with him. He volun-
fecred t© go on Albertson's bond, aud accom-
panted the party to Justice Harry H. Sharp's

oMmice.

Mr. Preston inquired of the court if there was
any charge there against Mr. Albertson. Jus-
tee Sharp replied that a complaint had been
made, charging him with complicity in the rob
bery of the Fidelity Trust Company bank by
Edward Albertson, Mr. Albertson's cousin, whi
ice. Mri a t
then said he had wollen: come before the
court to place himself within its jurisdiction
and notin Consejuence of the serving of any
warrant He asked the eonrt to name an early
@ate for an exami Monday, Sepigmber
14, at 2 p.m. Was ser.

The court was then requested to fix the
amountof the bond. Five thousand dol!
was named as the amount that would ordinarity
be requested, but the court iniormed Mr. Al.
bertson that his personal recognizance snd his
friends’ was quite suticient. Mr. Albert
waived this privilege. aud insisted upon giving
bond. The Bond was accordingly executed,
and following Mr. Albertson's uame were placed
the names of Elisha P. Ferry, Herman
Chapin, W. B Bailey and C. P. Masierson,
who became & surety merely as a

sign of friendship to Messrs. Albertson end

Bailey. The bond is gilt-edged, forthe names
on it represent at least $1,000,000, and the justice
remarked that it was the best ever given in his
court. In withdrawing Mr. Albertson shook
hands cordially with Justice Sharp and Clerk
Leslie.

Justice Sharp denies that there is any defect
in the warrant which Evaus served on Aibert-
son in Seattle, and maintains the right of a
deputy sheriff irom one county to serve Warrants
and make arrests in another county, while not
approving of the violence used toward Mr.
Albertson.

Mr. Albertson subsequently stated that there
is positively no foundation for the charge, and
Was very emphatic in the declaration that he
did not propose to let this outrage perpetrated
by Sullivan go unpunished. Since the bank
robbery he says Sullivan has had his men
shadowing him, and that Sullivan himself had
buildozed and browbeaten him in the endeavor
to accomplish the impossible. Even though he
did not know auythiug about where Albertson,
the embezzier, is, or What he did with the money
and securities taken from the bank,Mr. Albertson
Says Suliivan nevertheless nagged at him for
ench information. He asserted that every man
connected with the affair would be prosecuted.
As to T. B. Wallace, president of the Fidelity
Trust Company bank, Mr. Albertson says he will
be attended to later. Monday, he says, Wallace
telegraphed him to come tothis city. He an-
swered that he could be seen at his office in
Seattle. After the receipt of this reply it is aup-
posed the plan was hit upon to bring Mr. Albert-
80a into Pierce county in a closed carriage and
arrest bici in that manner.

As stated in the Post-INTELLIGENCER this
morning, Mr. Wallace claims that the bank has
Sufficient evidence against R. B. Albertson to
warrant the charge cited in the complaint. He
has been advised by his lawyer that it was not
necessary to have the warrant countersigued by
a King county officer to render service in that
county legal. Assistant Prosecuting Attorney
Claypool drew the warrant upon evidence laid
before him by Mr. Wallace. Mr. Wallace’y at-
tention was called to the discrepancy between
bis statement in the information that the stolen
property consisted of valuable notes and securi-
ties, and his statement in an interview that no
securities had been stolen. He denied that
either was incorrect, but declined to attempt to
explain the contradiction.

Prosecuting Attorney Snell says that the ne-
Cessity of ecountersigning warrants in one
county before they can be served in another
would defeat the ends of justice, as a criminal
could fice from one county to another and thas
peevent arrest. He advised sheriff Price, of this
county, thatit was not necessary to have the
warrant indorsed by a King county peace officer.
Sheriff Price claims that King county officers
areinthe habit of serving King county war-
rantsin this county without interruption or
hindrance.

In commenting upon the facts upon which
the warrant for R. B. Albertson's apprehension
was issued, Prosecuting Attorney Snell says the
evidence is quite sufficient, and that at the trial
Mr. Albertson may be placed in alight that will
not be enviable to himself, his friends or his
profession.

it may seem preposterous, but there are those
in this city who are openty talking about lynch-
ing Suilivan. A man called at the Tacoma bu-
Teau Of the Post-INTELLIGENCER this afternoon
and said he would be one of a party to lynch
him. It is also said Sullivan is fearful of being
assassinated, aud keeps a bodyguard with him
continually.

‘There are inany theories afloat here as to why
the bank people wished to arrest Mr. Albert-
son, of Seattle. Of course the majority incline
to the opinion that Sullivan was simply con-
tinuing his tactics of attempting to intimidate
him into telling what it was supposed he knew.
Others, however, refer to an alleged visit made
by Chandier, one of the robbers ac-

_compiices, to Mr. Albertson’s office at
Seattle, and state that he carried to him a
letter from Albertson, the embezzler, which he
asked him to take to the embezzier’s wife at
Tacoma. Mr. Albertson, it is said, refused to
receive the letter or have anything to do with
it. He, however, is credited with giving
to Chandler a postage stamp and an en-

velope, telling him to mail the letter if
he desired. Subsequentiy Mr. Albertson
came to the city and talked over the

situation with Mr. Wallace. It is thought by
some that the ietter which Chandier brought to
Mr. Albertson may have fallen into the hands of
Sullivan's men, and that its contents connected
him with the case.

Cohoon, brother-in-law of the embezzler, said
today that he had not giveu any information
that would connect R. Bb. Albertson in the case.
He is of the opinion that the Albertson cousins
were not on very friend!y terms.

PIERCE CO. OFFICERS’ POSITION.

They Hold That Evans Acted Within
the Line of His Duty.

Sheriff James Price and Prosecuting Attorney
W.H. Snell, of Pierce county, came to the trial
to look after the interests of Isaac Evans,
Price's deputy, who had tbe warrant. sheriff
Price said in regard to the case: ‘Evans is one
of my best deputies, and I have always regarded
him as faithtul, trustworthy and intelligent.
Moreover, I du not believe that he overstepped
his authority, for 1 hold that bis action was
jegnl. He came here to serve a properly-drawn
werrant, and to interfere with him, arrest him
or detain him was uncalled-for and unwar-
ranted.

“In the actions of M. C. Sullivan or McKay I
have no particular interest. They were going
ou their own responsibility, for I neither bave
had nor have | now any connection with them.
McKay was once connected with the Tacoma
police force, but he is not a deputy of mine.
I am told that he is employed by Sullivan.”

Mr. Snell deelared: “1 think you will find
that the warrant Evans held was properly
drawn and legally served. Certainly the war-
rant bore on its fave the evidence of genuine-
ness, and as such should have becn accepted.
1 know that it has been the custom in Pierce
and King to serve in ome county warrants
issned in another, witheut requiring any
special endorsement. Why there should have
been any objection to this service I fail to see,

“I have come in behali of Evans, who was
acting within the line of his duty. He isan
honest and faithtul man and did no wrong. A
mob took his lawfully arrested prisoner away
and threw him in jail. If that is the way things
are done in King county we want to find out
about it, for we don’t like it.

“We have nothing to do with Sullivan or Mc-
Kay. They are not officials of Pierce county.
For what they do they are responsible to them-
seives, and they hire their own counsel.”

These statements of McKay's standing are of
interest, in that when the resening party
reached Black River junction on Thursday
night, Sullivan remarked that McKay aud Evans
were “two Pierce county deputies.”

LEGAL OPINION OF THE ARREST,

Judges Struve and Hill Only Condemn
the Manner of It.

Legal opinion seems to be that the arrest of R.
| B. Albertson bya Pierce county officer in this
| county Was not contrary to law, though the
| manner ot it was uniawiul and the kiduaping
| of W.E. Bailey was a gross violation of law.
| On this subject Judge H. G. Struve said to a
Post- INTELLIGENCER reporter:

If the papers have reported the facts aceur-
| ately, there is no room to doubt that the officers,
| by arresting aud detaining Mr. Bailey against
| his will, are guilty of false imprisoument. which
| is @ misdemeanor under the common law and
theretore punishable as such under sectio
aud 7S) of the code, It also seems probable that
an assanit of some grade or an assaultand bat-
tery can be carved out of the tranaac tron.

Mr. Albertson's case is somewhat different. If
| the deputy sheriffs ther county had a
| proper warrant daly sign & justice of such

county gad valid on its face, the arrest was legal

| and justifiable, whatever may be said about the
Tutal methed used in effecting it, Seetion
1,922 of the eode seems to settie that proposition.
K Teers can only

il im Mae ing the arrest, the
employ such for

and, if th
the eler

2 as is reasonably ne “eSSAry,
Than excess of foree, or if
ression Or malice are mani-
OF the Writ, as the rep

the arrest
M.uiyl see it slate
Sa Warrant from anc
sed by a magistrate of the ¢ which
rest is wed i have not

t ) closely ex-
it 1 do not believe that such

} A’bertson ever gince he
cane to th ;Sutneeight or nine years ago
| 1 never kne ‘ 1
| bin life. He
for several years, and

ta stain or

ot doing the

U coincides in Judge Struve’s
Opinion in regard tothe legality of the service
oi the warrant. He ssid

| Ithas been generally Supposed that service of
| @ Warrant is illegal unless indorsed by the
| proper officer of the conuty in which it is
served. The matter is purely statutory, and

| Section 1.922 pf the code of ISSL, which is still in
| force, would appear to establich a differc nt rule.
| This section of the code would appear, upona
fair construction, to say that, if t! detendant
go to the

be out of theeounty, the officer m

place where he is aud arrest him, and if he fice

| @utot the county, may pursue him and arrest
A
