THE SULLIVAN OUTRAGE,

A Tacoma View of It.
Tacoma Globe.

The arrest of R. B. Albertson in Seattle upon
a charge of complicity in the robbery of the
Fidelity Trust Company, has caused a great
sensation. R.B. Albertson was arrested upon a
Warrant sworn out by T. B. Wallace, presideut
of the Fidelity Trust Company, which warrant
charged that R. B. Albertson received securities
from Edward Albertson, the defaulter, knowing
that the securities were stolen. The warrant
was given to Deputy Sheriff Evans, of this
county, to serve. He arrested Mr. Albertson
upon a public street in Seattle, A frieud of Mr.
Albertson, who was with him at the time of the
arrest, insisted upon accompanying his friend
and was allowed so to do. Detective Sullivan
accompanied Deputy Sheriff Evans and pointed
him out to the officer. Deputy Evans intended
to bring his prisoner to this city, but a great
Sefiratiog was raised in seattle, local police
officers boarded the train, the prisoner was re- —
leased, and Mr. Evans, Detective Sullivan and
&u assistant were arrested. |

These facts have given the newspapers a_
chance for a good many sensational reports. It
has been claimed that the arrest of Mr. Albert-
son Was au outrage, etc. The facts hardly bear
out tuese reports,

. *. * * . .

This is the sum and substance of the oceur-
reuce upon which the sensation was founded.
A bank in Tacoma had been robbed. Its officials
were searching for the robbers and his asso-
ciates. They had information which induced
them to swear outa warrant forthe arrest of a
man whoin they suspected as an associate of the
defaulter. The warrant was given to a deputy
sheriff to serve and the man Was arrested.
Whatever connection, if any, Detective Sulli-
van Or any other detective had with the case
does not affect the main proposition. The sen-
sation is ell bosh. Mr. Albertson was arrested
by an officer of the law, under a warrant proper-
ly issued. The only outrage seems to be in the
arrest of the deputy sherii? by Seattle police
officers. 2

Wipe Oat the Detectives,
Port Townsend Leader.

The Seattle xidnaping outrage of Thursday
evening furnishes another reason for ridding
thisstate of a hungry horde of detectives who,
under the guise of law, perpetaate the most |
Wanton acts of lawlessness. Kidnaping is not
uecessary in this enlightened age, and when de-
tectives, deputy sheriffs or any other officers of |
the law resort to such methods they become
Viclators of the law they have sworn to uphold.
By their actions they have become criminals, to
whom the severest punishment should be meted
out.

The story of the outrage can be briefly told.
R. B. Albertson, a well-known attorney, and
W. E. Batley, proprietor of the Seattle Press-
Times, both honorable, law-abiding citizens,
were forcibly taken im & closed hack by De-
tective M.C, Sullivan and two Tacoma deputy
sheriffs, on Thursday eveuing, from seattle to
black River junction, et route to Tacoma. The
coler for this outrage WSS & Warrant sworn out
in Pierce eounty for the arrest of Albertson on a
charge of receiving bonds stolen from the Ta-
coma Fidelity Trust Company. From the cir- |

cumstances surrounding the transaction, and
the excellent reputation borne by Albertsoa

during his long residence in this state, the

| charge seems to be, as he stated, wholly without

foundation.

Withont desiring to take any chances of fail-
ing to get Albertson away from Seattle, where
his friends are so numerous, these detectives re-
sorted to the lawless methods of kidnaping.
They watched for Albertson and when he started
to his hotel, in company with W. E. Bailey,
they arrested him on a defective warrant and
took Bailey with him. These men were held by
force in a closed hack and hurried
out of town to a junction nine miles
distant, where the train was to
have been taken for Tacoma. Friends of the
abducted men having been apprised of the out-
rage, a rescuing party was quickly formed,
headed by Judge Thomas Burke. Taking the
train they intercepted the abductors and their
Victims at the junction. Detective Sullivan
and his gang were arrested aud their prisoners
were released. Al! returned to Seattle together,
and the kidnapers were admitted to bail.

Albertson courts the fullest investigation, and
says he can prove his innocence, and those who
know him have [full faith in his statement. But
bo matter how well substantiated the charge
against him might have been, there is no justifi-
cation for the perpetration of such an outrage
as Sullivan and his ruffians committed.

This is not the first of Detective Sullivan’s
outrages. He has resorted to lawless methods
before, and it is time to put an effective check
upen this class of proceeding and rid the state
Of these ruffians. Other states have rid them-
selves of the Pinkertons and other detective
gangs, and Washington should do the same.
Sullivan and his detectives area worse evil
than the Pinkertons, aud should no longer be
tolerated within the borders of Washington. It
is high time these outrages were stopped and
detective ruftiaus were wiped out.

The Cap Sheaf of Evil.
Spokane Review.

At last we have the cap sheaf to the evil of so-
called Pinkertonism in this state. The alto-
gether reckless and lawless abduction of
two Seattle men was all that was required to
fire the mine of public wrath and put an effect-
ual quietus upon the dangerous operations of
the Sullivan guards.

Some sugh an overt act as this was needed to
arouse the torpid public toa realization of the
danger that was being nursed under the guise of
law and order. In vain did labor protest that
this evil was subversive of their rights and dan-
gerous to their freedom. In vain did the public
press point out the inevitable weakening of the
public arm that followed the employment of
these brutal hirelings. The danger was too in-
Sidious to arouse the sleeping lion, and the
shameful subserviency of a dishonored official

| stepped in between the quiet voice of the people

and the object of their mistrust, and by vetoing

the action of the legislature sought to fasten

still more firmly the cloak of law upen the
shoulders of lawlessness.

Mr. Bailey, in spite of his millions, is no more
entitled tothe protection of the law than the
poorest man in hisemploy. At the same time
he is a prominent man, and naturally the public
interest is more intense than it would be were
he in an obscure station. He is alsoa wealthy
and influential man, and if his righteous wrath
is not permitted to cool he can do the public a
great service by wagiug a personal crusade
against the pernicious system which deprived
him of his liberty.

It has long been apparent that these relics of
the dark ages of feudalism made themselves
chiefly serviceable by employing intimidation
and brute force under the thinnest veneer of
legality. They stole the livery of the lawasa
cloak to their lawlessness. But by directing
their efforts against poor men of no influence
and using discretion in the treatment of the
rich and powerful, they have long succeeded in
masking their true character and silencing the
occasional indiguant protests of labor and the
indepenaent press.

Luckily Sullivan's stupidity or audacity has
put a different coloring upon hisefforts. If the
outery against Pinkertonism doesn’t swell into
an angry roar after this reckless display the
Washington people will have to be set down as
extraordinarily careless of their liberties,or alto-
gether wrapped up im the acquirement of
wealth.

It is well that the outrage has been perpe-
trated. It may lead tothe most beneficial re-
sulta.

Governor and Deputy Sheriffs.
Tacoma Ledger.

Governor Ferry is reported to have expressed
doubt as to the right of a deputy sheriff of
Pierce county toserve a warrant in King county.
The governor's position on the deputy sheriff
question is getting more and more difficult to
understand.

Some time ago he authorized, by telegram, the
colonel of a militia regiment to call out the
Pierce county contingent for service in King
county. They responded to the call in good
faith, rendered the service required of them,
supposing they were militia organizations, as
they seemed to be. After their service was ren-
dered the governor decided that they were sim-
ply deputy sheriffs and that the state could not
be held for payment for what they had done.

Now, in view of the governor's latest expres-
sion of opinion, several questions arise. Have
soldiers, who suppose they are acting as soldiers,
but who are really deputy sheriffs out of their
own county, more authority when acting with-
out warrant, than a real deputy sheriff has who
is acting with warrant? If a deputy sheriff,
armed with a warrant, is exceeding his author-
ity by attempting to serve it in another county,
may he lawfully go into the other county with-
out warrant and make the arrest? If, in either
case, he acts legally, which county must pay for
his services, or is either re; ponsible forit? Have
deputy sheriffs residing in one county more legal
authority in another county when bearing arms
and wearing uniforms, than without? In case
these armed deputies, acting in a county in
which they do not reside, should make arrests,
would the governor regard it as any part of his
duty to sign the bonds of the parties arrested?

Dastardly Work.
Centralia News.

Bogus detectives and detective agencies are
working in this state toanextent that is out-
rageous. Last night two of the best citizens of
Seattle, Mr. W. R. Bailey, owner of the Press-
Tunes, and R. B. Albertson, were the subjects of
an alleged arrest aud abduction by foree by
means of a closed carriage. They were sub
jected to inhtiman treatment, and the people of
Washington are loud in their denunciations of
such dastardly work. M. C. Sullivan, a detec-
tive, together with other officers under his
charge, did this work and have been made to
feel the iron hand of law by being themselves
arrested and placed under heavy bonds. It is
high time our citizens were freed from such
practices. When men have to bearrested, do so
in all respect and in accordance with law and
justice. Right is mght and hurts no man,

A Little Too Bold and Brutal.
Pavailup Commerce.

So-called detectives are getting a little too
bold and brutal for the best interests of the
whole people. At Seattle yesterday Detective
Sullivan, or Kidnaper Sullivan, abducted
Messrs. Bailey and Albertson, drove them ina
closed carriage to Black River Junction and
held them there to take ther by train to Ta-
coma, where Albertson would be charged with
receiving $9,000 of securities stolen by his cousin
from the Fidelity bank. These Seattle ci tizens
were roughly handled, but a party of prominent
Seattle men came to their assistance by train
and soon had them back home again, with their
abductors as prisoners.

The “Private Detective’ Unpopular.
Portland Oregonian.

The private detective is not a very popular
person at best, and needs to be very circumspect
in hie behavior to keep outof tronble. It cer-
tainly looks as if the best known member of the
fraternity on the Pacific coast would get into
the Washington penitentiary for his high-
handed and apparently inexcusable attempt to
make an irregular arrest in Seattle Thursday.
The persons concerned are poth rich and influ-
ential, and are likely to take aldeal of pains to
“square accounts” with theircaptor. The pri-
vate detective should choose his men wisely
when heis going to strain his legal right to
carry a point.

Too Much of the Russian Method.
Walla Walla Union-Jonrnal.

The abduction of Attorney Albertson and Mr.
Bailey by Detective Sullivan, was an out-
Tage that should be punished to the full extent
of both the criminal and civil laws. There has
been too much of this Sullivan detective busi-
ness in Washington. His Russian way of deal-
ing with our citizens must be suppressed, and

the regularly elected officers of the law required
to do their duty, “"

A Characteristic Sneer.
Tacoma Ledger.

If Detective Sullivan fails to forthwith send
his check around toeach of the newapapers
they ougut to quit advertising him. He is hav-
ing afree run of it now, and the storekeepers
who have to pay fur their space are getting tired
of it.
