Can't Get Justice

Albertson Wants a
Change of Venue —

So HE CAN HAVE A FAIR TRIAL

Says That tha Tacoma Morning News-
papers Have Lied About Him and
created a Pnvlic Prejudiee Against
Him—Other Affidaviis.

R. B. Albertson, today,’by his -attor-
peys, Judge Black and J. C. Haines
fied a motion for a change of venue an
with the motion filed the following af-
fdavit in support thereof:

R. B. Albertson being first duly sworn
on cath deposes and says that he is a
resident of the city of Seattle, King
county, and State of Washington, over
the age of 21 years, and defendant
ia the above’ entitled cauze;
that affiant believes that
he cannot receive a fair trial in Pierce
county, State of Washington, the county
wherein said action is pending, owing to
excitement and prejudice against said
jiendant in said Pierce county; that
ever since the 11th day of September,
1891, all the daily morning papers of the
city of Tacoma, in Pierce county, where
tue preliminary hearing of said defend-
ani was held, have at intervals published
jaise and prejudiced statements both
in their editorials and in their news col-
mns concerning said afiiant tending to

v
ghow that said affiant had and has some
culty connection with one Edward
Albertson and one FP. N. Chandler, who

have been charged with the crime of
grand larceny from the Fidelity Trust
Company of said city, in Pierce county,
ani tending . thereby to show
that said affiant is an  accom-
pive in said alleged crime; that
said atfiant is informed and believes
that the crime with which affiant is
charged in the information herein ig
that of being aceessory in said crime of
crand larceny from the said Fidelity
‘trust Company; that said affiant is in-
formed and believes that the statements
snd accounts published in said daily
newspapers have been widely read
throughout said county of Pierce and
that in consequence thereof a large por-
tion of the people of said county Lave
received false reports of the
jacts and circumstances concerning the
charge made against this affiant; and
have been prejudiced thereby against
this deiendant and said affiant believes
tiat he cannot have a fair trial in said
Pierce Co., wherefore affiant demands to
be tried in another county in said State
of Washington.

R. B. ALBERTSON.

Accompanying this affidavit is the
affidavit of R. H. Goldie, reciting the
iacis concerning Albertson’s arrest, and
setting forth the charge that the Tacoma
newspapers have published articles tend-
ng to inflame the minds of the people.
oi Pierce county and create a senti-
ment of hostility against Albertson,
and that the Tacoma papers have
discussed the matter in such a way as to
create the impression that Albertson is
guilty. He further avers that the testi-
mony of Albertson was falsified and
misstated and in one instance it was
even charged that Albertson had con-
iessed complicity in the crime.

A. C. Bowman also files an affidavit in
support of the motion, giving a verbatim
report oi Albertson’s testimony concern-
ing the letter which he was asked by
Chandier to deliver to Mrs. Albertson.
bowman was Albertson’s stenographer
at the hearing,

George iiyde Preston also makes an
ailayit, in which he sets forth substan-
tally the same statements as are made
n Albertson’s affidavit, and including
he clippings from Tacoma papers which
are considered prejudicial as to Albert-
fon’s case. These he avers are false in cer-
tain particuiars, which he fully sets forth.

The motion was not argued for the
reason that Prosecutor Snell desired
ime to file counter affidavits. The
argument of the question was therefore
delayed until next week.

]
+
t

