MR. BAILEY’S STORY,

Mr. W. E. Bailey’s account of the ai-
fair ig as follows: “We were on our way
tothe clubfor-dinner at a quarter to 6
when Ike Evans, a deputy sheriff of
Pierce county,.stepped up to Albert on
Third street between Marion and Mad-
ison and told him that he had a war-
rant for his arrest. Mr. Albertson asked
him to produce the warrant and asked
under What authority he was acting.
Evans distinctly stated that he was a
deputy sheriffof King county. The war-
rant being only issued by Justice Sharp
of Pierce and not endorsed by any King
county authority, Aibertson refused to
acknowledge the authority of the war-
rant, not being a King county warrant.
Sullivan said he wanted to take him to
the sheriff’s office. Albertson asked him
to take him to his own oflice and he
would allow him to serve any legally ex-
ecuted papers; that he might see his
partner and attorney. Sullivan insisted
on his getting into the carriage and tried
to force him todoso. Albertson resist-
ed,and [ helped him in resisting, but
finally, rather than to have ascene on the

street and upon the distinct promise of
both Sullivan and Evans that they would
drive us direct to the Haller building,
we gotinto the carriage. Sullivan and
Evans pulled down ail the biinds and
McKay drove. Instead of going to the
Haller building they started down Third
street. When we demanded to know
where they were going, they said to the
station to take the train to ‘lacoma.
Then they refused to have the carriage
stop to let me get out and telephone or
get out of the carriage. He did not
drive to the station, but drove as rapidly
as possible over the Grant street bridge
toward the outskirts of the ‘city. [
asked again to see the warrant, which
aiter having read over again I told them
was of no value or force, and both Mr.
Albertson and I attempted to get out of
the carritge. Evans and Sullivan both
grabbed ‘Albertson to prevent him
getting ont or even calling to any one
outside. [ caught hold of Sullivan to
prevent him touching Albertson and
opened the carriage door. At that time
the driver McKay attempted to close the
door. Sullivan said he would fix me if
I didn’t keep quiet. He put his hand to
his hip pocket as if to draw a pistol, but
he did not. ° ;

“T stuck my head out of the carriage,
called toa man on horseback near the
Sweeney brewery and told him to go to
nearest telephone and telephone to Mr.
Preston and Mr. Dunworth and to Judge
Burke that Sullivan hd attempted to
kidnap Albertson on an_ improperly
drawn wrrrant, and was driving towards
Tacoma and ask to have them take the
first train for Tacoma. The man, a Mr,
Brunsing, sent telephone message, and
then followed us on horseback. He
overtook us again near the race track at
a place.where Sullivan had promised to
stop in order to let us telephone to our
friends about our arrest. I asked Mr.
Brunsing toride back to the Rainier
Club and find Mr. Barker and have him
notify Judge Burke,’ Mr. Preston and
Mr. Donworth. By this time it had
grown dark, and we were out in the coun-
try. They drove till they reached Black
River Junction, where we ail left the
carriage and went into the station. Here
I sent a telegram to Seattle, stating that
the train was two hours late, and asking
Judge. Burke, Mr. Preston and Mr. Don-
worth to come on it, it being Sullivan’s
intention to take Albertson to Tacoma
on that train. Judge Burke on the in-
formation given him in town by Mr.
Brunsing, swore out a warrant for Sulli-
van’g arrest and he, together with other
friends and the chief oi polive, came out
on the train to Black River Junction
where Sullivan was arrested. They
were taken into the police court and
arraigned on a charge of assault and
battery.

“The charge of kidnaping was not
considered to be sufficient to bring about
a proper punishment. When Sullivan
said he would fix me and I refused to
obey him he called to McKay, who was
on the box, to change places with
him saying at the same time, ‘I’ll send
somebody back here that will fix you.’

“Sullivan distinctly represented him-
self to be a deputy suerif!’ and when I
asked him to show his authority he said |
he had no badge, but that he had plenty
of warrants... He drew a bundle of pa-

rs out of his pocket but would allow
me to handle none of them. I told them
that their actions were illegal and that
they would suffer for it.” .

