Sc ———_leN
fio connection with the robbery, and I have no
knowledge of the affair.

«fut the detectives chased me to Tacoma and
then followed me back here.

“On Wednesday M. C. Sullivan came into mr
office and tried to talk with me. I told himI
would have nothing to do with him, and I or-
lered him out.

“Thursday afternoon Mr. Bailey had been in
my office on some matters of business, and at
about 5:3) he cameout with me and my partner,
George Donworth.

“Donworth went to his home, and Mr. Bailey
and I started upthe hill to the Rainier Club,
where we live in order to get dinner.

“We were on Third street going from Marion
to Madison, when a man whom I have since
learned is Evans, a Pierce county officer,
stepped upand said to me: ‘I bave s warrant
for your arrest.’

“Where is it? I asked.”

“Here,—and he showed mea warrant issued
by Harry Sharp, a Tacoma justice of the peace.
{t charged me with receiving the stolen bonds
and notes, when I knew them to be stolen.”

“The warrant was not indorsed by any King
county justice, so I declared it was invalid, and
I refused to go.

“Then McKay and Sullivan stepped up and he
and Evans iaid violent hands on me and
tried to force me into a hack standing
at the edge of the sidewalk. McKhy threatened
to put handcuffs on me if I didn’t come along.

“We were getting into a row there on the side-
walk, and Mr. Bailey in the interest of peace
Suggested that we all go down to my office.

“sullivan agreed and in that understanding
we all got into the carriage. Evans told me he
was going to take me to the sheriff's. When I
asked if it was here he said ‘No, in Tacoma.

“Then I objected. When we were on the way
to the station I wanted to get out and telephone,
but they wouldn't let me. For some reason they
seemed very anxious to hurry me off to
Tacoma without letting my friends here know
anything about it or giving me a chance
‘o take bondsmen. I : told = ~—

rfect] willing 4
i they would ' peg notify my friends. Mr.
Bailey got into trouble simply by sticking by me.

“We both tried to get outon the Grant street
bridge, but were held back. I fought, but Sulli-
yan choked me till I stopped.”

Mr. Albertson gave the details of the story of
the kidnaping substantia:ly as related above.

MR. BAILEY’S STORY.

He Was Gotten Into the Hack by Lying
Tatk.

very kind to them I told Mr. Albertson
that when we got to Tacoma that if Mr. Buiiey
could not go his baill would. He treated me
brutally, and said he did not want my bail.

“Did you not threaten Mr. Albertson several
days ago?”

“Last Sunday he was
made a cree di of his knowledge of
the defalcation. I came over early this
week, and called on him to geta further
staternent. He refused to talk to me.
ldon’t see what I hare done wrong. I wes
simply working forthe bank, which has lost
large sum of money.”

a, ipso Rae
RACE AFTER THE HACK.

in Tacoma and

John Gilpin’s Ride of a South Seattle
Hero.

As the hack passed the vinecar works on Grant
street bridge, Albertson put his head out of the
window and shouted loudly for help. Two
of the employes of the vinegar works heard him
and became very much excited. One of the
couple saddled a claybank mare and raced
after the hack, which, by the time
he started was well on the road
and out of sight around the bend where the rail-
road and the county road meet. The man
evidently had an indefinite idea of doing the
heroic, and rescuing somebody, but as he was
unarmed it is dificult toimagine the details of
his plan.

The hack and the claybank mare raced on,the
latter gaining rapidly. Just beyond the term-

inus of the South Seattle railroad the
man on the mare overtook the
youngest son of Mr. Thomas and

shouted to him to clear the road. The boy
mistook his words for a challenge to a
race, and kicking his horse violently
with his heels he spurred him
tothecontest. They raced on, much to the
wonderment of the people who live along the
road, who did not have an inkling of what the
strange proceeding meant.

In this order the party passed the White
House. Carson, the proprietor of the place,
noticed that something was up, and
afterward gave an accurate description
ot Detective M. C. Sullivan as the
man on the box by the drivers side.
The hack was still ahead, and the boy and the
man with the claybank were running a close
race, as the boy supposed, for the cham-
Pionship of South Seattie. Michael O'Don-
nell, the bartender at the Road house,
saw them, still running, and the people at the
race track saw the same strangespectacie. Pres-
ently the boy rode back, and a short while after-
ward the man passed on his mare, which was

aon oan he hee med jaded and covered with foam. The people of
asked Evans if he was an off- | that neighborhood retire early, and so they did
cer, and the man answered that | Bot see the back on its return trip.

“es was. 8 King county deputy, When H. A. Frederick, the drayman, was among
the party got back to the  po- | those who saw the hack dashing along the Toad
lice headquarters Sheriff Woolery was south of _the Grant street bridge,
angry to learn that such a statement | *"2 fecognized Mr. Bailey os ove

had been made. Evans was called
up and denied that he had represented
himselfas from King county, but Mr. Bailey
Teiterated the charge in Evans’ face.

THE DRIVER’S STORY.

Statement of the Man Who Drove the
Carriage.

John King, the driver who conveyed the party
to Black River junction, returned to the city at
11 o'clock, and upon entering the stabes of the
Seattle Transfer Company, in whose employ he
is, was intercepted by a police officer, who re-
fused him permission to take his horses from
the gurney and put them in the barn.

He was taken up to police headquarters, where
he was booced on suspicion, but allowed to go
back to the barn in charge of an officer. In
the meantime Mr. Frank Shaubut had gone

of itsinmates, Last night as soon as he heard
of the kidnaping he told the following story:
Abont 6 o'clock I was driving in from Braun's
brewery, and Albert Braun was with me. I was
driving rapidly and was near the race track
when I saw a hack coming toward me,
tearing along at a terrible rate. King was
driving, and on the box with him sat
abigman. Asl passed the hack I just got a
glimpse of W.E. Bailey's face. It was very
white, and 1 wondered what eould be the
matter with him, I could not imagine what
he should be driving at such a terrific speed in
that direction ior. He was sitting on tne left
hand side of the back seat, and two or three
men were in the carriage with him.”

THE DEFECTIVE PROCESS.

Illegal Warrant Under Which the Oat-
rage Was Committed.

: i
a pg a So Beene y sy Evans was sullen at the police headquarters
Shaubut returned, and together with areporter | *%4 refused to talk. It was evident
of the Post-InTeLuiceNcer, Shaubut and King | tbat he wes deepty chagrined

drove to headquarters, when King was bailed
out by Mr. Shaubut, While at headquarters
King made the following statement: “In the
afternoon at 5 o'clock Detective Sullivan
came to me and engaged me by the
hour, At Third and Marion, almost in
front of the Chamber of Commerce, four men
quickly got into the closed carriage. I was
then driving and one man since pointed ont to
me as McKay got up on the seat by my side. I
heard Mr, Baliey say as he got in ‘You are my
friend, and I intend tostick toyou. I will go
along.’ My firs; order was to go to the Northern
Pacific station. I was then directed to go
to the bottling works, I then
objected. I told McKay that I could not do it
as it would take me beyond my time for quitting
work, which was 6 o'clock. As we went along
the Grant street bridge my suspicions were more
fully aroused by loud curses and a deep struggle
that was going on between the men in the car-
riage; the man McKay at my side keeping close
watch on me, with his hand pretty close to his
pistol pocket,
“When about half the distance to the junction
I refused to go further, when Sullivan
mounted the box beside me and began to argue
the question, Hesaid that I would be forced to go,
that McKay was the sheriff of Pierce county,
and that it would go hard with me if I failed to
obey his ordera. I continued, and on reaching
the junction Chief Rogers Liberated
Mr. Albertson and Mr. Bailey ond
placed Sullivan, McKay and Evans under
arrest. When I got back totownI was ar-ested
without a warrant,and don’t even know the
charge against me. I don’t know anything
more about the case. | am not in any con-
epiracy.
“As faras I know, Mr. Bailey went of hisown

free will, and the only fighting or strug-
ging I know of took piace on the
Grant street bridge. From a word I
could get here and there I think

that Albertson and Bailey both thonght they
were going to be taken toa different place than
the oue the Sullivan party forced them to go to.”

Mr. Shaubut says that John King, the driver
mixed up in the affair, has been in the employ
of the company for four years, that he has al-
ways been honest, faithful and reliable, and
that thecompany has complete confidence in
the truthfulness of his statement.

DETECTIVE SULLIVAN’S STORY.

He Says He Was Simply Helping Serve
a Warrant.

Detective M. C. 8ullivan was seen after his re-
lease Inst night. He was very nervous, and
when asked to tell his story shifted nervously.

“I had nothing todo with the arrest itself,”

ersidhe. “It was Deputy Evans, one of Sherif
Price's most trusted men, that served the
warrant, I wanted to arrest Albertson

early in the evening and take him to Tacoma ou
the So’clock train. We waited on the street for
him for a long time before he came.
The hack was on the corner of Marion
and Third streets, and when he came
up with Bailey I pointed him ont
to the deputy and then stood back.
When he came up the deputy served the
warrant. Albertson argued that the wur-
rant was not good, bunt the deputy
was firm. They argued several minntes, and
then Albertson got in the hack. He said he
wanted to go to his office. Bailey
offered to go with him, I and
twootmy deputies got in with them end an-
other goton the box. Bailey was anxious to go.
We drove down Third street.

“*Where are you taking me?’ asked Albertson,

“ «To the sheriff's office,’ said I.

“after we had crossed Yesler avenue Albert-
son asked me what sheriff's office I meant, and
I said, ‘sheriff! of Pieree county.’ We drove
over the Grant street bridce. The little fellow
tried to getout and the deputy sberit® had to
hold him. They both yelled soloud and abused
the officer eo much that I said:

“«Now if you can’t act like gentlemen, I won't
ride with you. Ididn't like to hear them ea}!
an officer names and see them behave #0, so I got
out and got on the box and put Deputy McKay,
who. is @ sironger man, insi Thev
yelle€d so that a crowd commenced
following us, Ihate such fuss, and 1 tried to
get them to stop 1. Sowe kept on to Bisck
River junction.”

“Why did you kidnap these men?’ was asked
by the reporter.

“Kidnap!” exclatmed the detective, with an
injured air, “You don’t cali it that, do you?
Why, | was just with an ofticer serving a pro-
cosa.”

“Why didn't you serve the process in the
usual manner?”

“The deputy sheriff was afraid his friends
would get out a writ or something of that sort.”

“Was it necessary to take them out of town to
put them on the train?”

te.

“Oh, you see, we wanted to catch the 5
o'clock train. I thought there was
time enough, but Raley ssid there

wasn't Then I thoucht we would take the
train at Braun's brewery. We kept on driving
until we reached Black River junction at 8-20."

“Why did you Kidnap Mr, Bailey also if you

had no warrant for him?”
“Why, Mr. Bailey waa anxious to go
with us After we got started he

commenced yelling and abusing us, and
I teid him be must bebave himself like a gen-
tleman. I wouldn't stay in the carriace and
bear bis abuse of the officers, I was

atthe turn affairs bad taken, and he was nota

little worried over the trouble ahead for him.

Directed by M. C, Sullivan he showed the fol-

lowing warrant for Albertson:
Warrant—Criminal action,

State of Washington,
County of Pierce,
In justice court,

acoma precinct, Pierce
county, before Harry <A. §harp, e6q.,
justice the peace, to the sheriff
or any constable of said county.
Whereas, T. B. Wallace has this day complained
in writing under oath to the undersigned, one
of the justices of the peace in and for said
county, that on or about the 22d day of Au-
gust, 1591, at » in said county, R. B.
Albertson did receive and conceal, or aid in the
concealment of certain stolen property, to-wit:
Notes and other valuable securities of the value
of $9,000, ail of which said notes and
securities were the property of the Fidelity Trust
Company of ‘lacoma, the said B.
Albertson well kuowin) the same notes
and securities to ave been stolen,
contrary to the form of the statute in such
cases made and provided, and agninst the peace
and dignity of the State of Washington.
Therefore, in the naine of the stute of Wash-
ington, you are commanded forthwith to ng
hend the said R. B. Albertson and bring him
before me to be dealt with according to law.
Given under my band this 8th day of Septem-
2) Harry A. SHARP,
Justice of the Peace,

of

M’KAY’S LIE,

He Madea Vain Attempt to Deny His
Own Name.

At the station at Elack River junction McKay
was asked his name and he refused to give it,

“You're McKay,” said one of the reporters,

“I’m not!” was the answer.

“That isa lie, forI knew you when you were
captain of police in Tacoma.”

McKay accepted the insult and acknowledged
his name. Later he tried to skulk out of
the scrape. He urged that his name be not

rinted, because, as he alleged, he was brought
into the scrape and really had no partin the
matter.

THE KIDNAPPING OF COHOON,

Russian Methods Tolerated in Tacoma—
Light on Sullivan's Tactics,
Tacoma, Sept. 10.—[Special.J—suilivan’s ac-
tion {mn kidnaping Albertson and Bailey is essen-
tially similar to the detention in this city a
couple of weeks ago of Johu L, Cohoon, brother-
in-law of Edward Albertson, who robbed the

Fidelity Trust Company bank here. The only
tangible reason for Cohoon's detention
for five days in a room in the

Fife hotel, as far as can be learned from inter-
ested parties, ia the fact that a letter addressed
to Cohoon had been intercepted. This letter was
from Albertson, the absconder, and Tequested
Cohoon to carry mail to his family and the
family of Chandler, and another suspected of
having aided in the robbery. Cohoon’'s counsel
claim that this is no just cause why he should
be thrown into fail.

But ag to Sullivan's tactics: Cohoon says he
requested him to coto a roomin the hotel and
talk over the situation, Arriving at the ro m,
he was confronted by several Sullivan detec.
tives, Sul-ivan flaunted a paper in hs face,
Cohoon says, and told him [t was a warrant for
his arrest, but would not allow bim to read it.
Cohoon was then given the alternative of going
to jail or remaining in the room. He could not
learn the contents of the alleged Warrant,
and, in the hope of not having his name
connected with the scandal, agreed to remain in
the room, provided, however, sullivan not): ed
his family of his whereabouts. Sullivan agreed,
but Mrs. Cohoon Was not told what had become
of her husband. His friends talked of swearing
Onta Writol habeas corpus to secure the liberty
of Cohoon. Mra. Cohoon and Albertson's wife are
in @ prostrate? condition as the result of the
bbery and Cohoon’s disappearance Sullivan

: to a deputy sheriff!and had him arre en
“4 & Warrant charging him with com.
ty in the robbery, Through an attorney €).
nh proposes to bri
h

r

e
,
ig suit for damayes against
‘@siillin jail, as is alxo ons
ott, alias Williams, s detective who was put
there on an alleged charge of defaleation, but
really for the purpose of pumping Cohvon. Co
hoon was to have been arraigned wday, but the
case Was continued,

M. K. snell, Cohoon's attorney and attorney
also for Fore un Case, of tne Tacoma Railway
and Motor cx ~an¥'S works, whom Sullivan is
charged with beating and choking in a brutal
manuer, said tonight to the correspondent of
the Post-INTELLIGENCER:
Sulltvan ifs a Dulldozer.
Failiug to get informat
tempts at brutal if 3 t
will meet tr - I have in my desk the |

ition of the man Case, whom Sullivan |
iand beat nearly to death because he
uld not swear as Sullivan wanted him to
hereby criminate parties against wh Dit]

was trving tosecureevicence, C
dera doctor’acare, although Sullivan
him six weeks ago. His eves were
n black and bine, his head was eut and his
1 by Sullivan's fincers in chok-
e wil bring suit fordamages and
against Sullivan.

Tonight, when the news of the kidnaping of
Bailey and Aibertson was Teeeived. Mr. Brain-
ard, of the Press- Times, at once opened commun-
feation with Seattle by telephone. While thus
conversing the enterprising mavor of Slaughter,
who happened to overhear by telephone part of
the sensational disclosure, volunteered to assist
in the capture of Sullivan. The mayor was in

ivan, ¢

w
c
Pp
ho
8
$

gation, &

ase
