| HIS FRIENDS TALK.

Governor Ferry did not care to express
an opinion on the subject of Sullivan’s
iacts. He said, ‘‘ There is no doubt but
that the ofiicers exceeded their authority
in attempting to execute a Pierce county
warrant in King county, but further
than that Ido not want to express an
opinion. I have known young Albertson
for a number of years and insisted upon
being allowed to go on his bond, entirely
without his solicitation.”

Mr. George H. Preston, R. B. Albert-
son’s business partner and attorney, said:

“T wish you would make it clear that
the only object for Mr. Albertson’s ap-
pearance here today was to voluntarily
place himself within the jurisdiction of
the court for examination and that he
voluntarily gave bail where his personal
recognizance would have sutliced.. There
seems to me to be no doubt but that for
the fortunate presence of Mr. Bailey,

among the others mysteriously missing.
The desire seems to have been to get
Mr. Albertson without his iriends know-
ing where he was as they did with Co-
hoon. The outrage is one of the worst
ever committed in the name of the law
and will not go unpunished.”

JUDGE SHARP'S OPINION.

Justice Harry H. Sharp said this
morning: ‘‘All this talk about a Pierce
county warrant having to be counter-
signed by a King county authority belore
it can be served in King county is bosh.
The sheriff of King county can serve a
warrant in any county in the State
without reierence to any other autbority.
The arrest so far as Albertson is con-
cerned was perfectly legal and regular,
No return has been made on the warrant
yet by the officers.””

Judge Sharp did not argue that the
detention of Bailey against his will was
legal.

WHAT MR. WALLACE SAYS.

President T. B. Wallace, of the Fidelity
Trust Company, was asked today by a
reporter:

-**Who is behind these arrests of
Cohoon and Albertson ?”’ 5

He said: ‘“‘f am. I swore out the
warrants for the arrest of both of them
as accomplices of Albertson, the em-
bezzler. We lave the best of evidence
that they are implicated, such evidence
as does not leave any doubt about the
matter.”

“What is the nature of the evidence ?"’
“IT cannot tell you that, but it will
‘come out in time.’”’

“But why was Mr. Bailey arrested ?’’
“He wasn’t arrested. We didn’t want
He insisted on going along with
Albertson and for that reason was taken
along. We know very weil that Mr,
Bailey has nothing to do with the case.”
- “What money or securities does the
$9000, mentioned in the warrant ior
Albertson’s arrest, reler to?’’

“To the amount of money taken by
Albertson. That is tie approximate
amount, perhaps not the least sum, but
near enough for practical purposes.”

“Can you tell me if Mr. Hinsdaie, Al-
bertson’s friend, who has also disap-
peared, has been kidnaped or arrested
by Suilivan?””

“TI do not know anything about him
or where he is. He will prohably come
oué all right. I want to say that Cohoon
and Albertson were not kidnaped.
They were merely arrested by the usual
process of law made out and served in a
legal manner. The charge of kidnap-
ing is unfounded.’’

“But they say that a warrant issued
here cannot be legally served in King
county.”’

“Tam not a lawyer and cannot say
about that. Iam informed and believe
that the service was regular.’’

SHERIFF PRICE'S STORY.

“Sheriff Price, it is said that the war-
rant served by your deputy on Albertson
was not served in a regular manner and
also that you have been in collusion with
Sullivan in this matter. What can you
say about it?”

This statement made by a reporter, of
the News to Pierce county’s sheriff this
morning brought forth the following re-

ply:
“T have tried simply to do my duty.
It is a rule of this office to serve all war-

rants that come regularly into our hands |

and that as quickly as possible. When
I send a deputy out with a warrant I ex-
ect him to arrest his man and bring
imin. Idonot take it that we lave
any authority to say whether warrants
are properly drawn or issued for a sufli-
cient cause or not.

“f hold that it is not necessary to
have the warrant indorsed by the offi-
cials of the other county. That point
has never been raised before in this
State to my knowledge. They bring
warrants over here irom Seattle and
serve them and no objection has ever
been made to it. When warrants are
issued and placed in our hands nothing
reinains for us to do but to serve them,
and we intend to perform our duty under
all circumstances,

“As to any collusion with Sullivan I
cannot tell how any such imputation can
be made. I haye expressed myself on
his methods in the past. He is em-
ployed by the bank to do their work and
of course I cannot object to their em-
ploying whom they wish. He had
nothing to do with the serving of the
warrant on Albertson so far as I knew
up to last night. Deputy Evans, of
course, used his own means to arrest his
man. Sullivan, I understand, wanted

to be present when Al son Was ar-
rested, thinki that he might obtain}
information value by so doing.

Evans, knowing he was working on the
case, allowed him to be present. I think
that Deputy Evans merely did his duty.

“Prosecuting A en E

Mr. Aibertson would now be numbered’

MR. SNELL HAS EVIDENCE,

Prosecuting Attorney W. H. Snell
said today: . es

“The warrant served by Evans was
executed legally and with good author-
ity. They can have 46 criminal action
against Evans, for he }was not actin;
with any malicious intent, but in go»
faith. It was an outrage to put him in
jail. ’, .
: “I am of the opinion, and have ad-
vised Sheriff Price, that it was not
necessary to have the warrant endorsed
in King county. With that practice in
operation a criminal: fleeing from one
county to another could never be cap-
tured.

“You may say that before the warrant
was issued for Albertson the facts on
which it was based were laid before
Assistant Prosecuting’ Attorney Claypool
aad that he considered that there were
sufficient grounds to cause a warrant to
be issued. _t erhaps at the trial Albert-
son will be placed in a light that won’t
be enviabie for himself, his friends, or
his profession.” .

Mr. Snell stated that the bank had
very good evidence to believe Albertson
implicated in the.steal.”” -

COHOON HAS-TOLD- NOTHING.

What clue have the bank and Sullivan
to the effect that Attorney Albertson, of
Seattle, is implicated ? x

This is a pertinent question that is
causing widespread interest in the case.

Today it was suggested that perhaps
Cohoon, in jail, had told some-
thing leading to the arrest of young
Albertson, cousin of the embezzler. Ac-
cordingly a reporter secured an order of
admittance to his cell and interviewed
Cohoon.

“Thave given no knowledge to any-
body and had none to-~ give,’ he said
when questioned, ‘‘l think that young
Albertson has as much connection with
the affair as 1 have; no more; and that
is nothing. No, I don’t think that the
cousins were on particularly good terms,
thatis,no more than ordinary _friend-
ship. To my knowledge Albertson
never came to Tacoma until two weeks
ago, after the robbery occurred. Sulli-
van is trying -to piay a blutf game,
thinking by arresting Albertson’s friends
and relatives and leaving the tamily un-
protected, he will cause the eimbezziert
to give himself up _ to liber-
ate them. I do not bank on
Albertson’s doing anything of the kind,
ido not believe that Sullivan will ap-
pear against me for more than likely he
will be jaid out before long if he con-
tinues to make himself so promiscuous.””

Cohoon was greatly surprised to hear
that Messrs. Albertson and Bailey had
been arrested. He will remain in jaila
week longer. His iriends claim that
his case was continued yesterday be-
cause Sullivan had no eyidence to sub-
mit against bim,

Sullivan is known to have stated a day
or two since that 2 part of hi8’plan is to
accomplish what Cohoon, in the inter-
view. given, stated; viz: to arrest Al-
bertson’s friends hoping thereby to
compel the embezzler to return and give
himself up for his family’s sake and to
get his iriends~out oi the detectives’
clutches,

FACTS AND THEORIES.

These interesting facts a News’ re-
porter learned today: Two weeks ago
Chandler, Alberteon’s accomplice, called
upon young Albertson in Seattle, in the
latter’s office, carrying a letter which
the Seattle attorney was asked to deliver
to Mrs. Albertson in Lacomu. The letter
was from Albertson the embezzler, and
is supposed to have contained a full
statement of his transactions, with
perhaps a plan by which his wife might
join him in some secluded spot.

Did Aibertson deliver the letter? Not
he. He promptly ordered Chandler out
of the ollice declaring that he would
have nothing to do witha the delivery of
the embeazzler’s letters. He gave Chan-
dier an envelope and stamp, telling him
he could use them to’ mail the letter if
he wished. Chandler took the stamp |
and envelope and departed. A day orso
afterwards, Attorney Albertson visited |
Tacoma, saw President Wallace, Mrs.
Albertson and also the friends who were
then making an effort to secure Cohoon’s
release from the detectives’ custody.
Albertson then announced that he bad
been sufficiently disgraced by his cov s-
in’s dishonesty and hoped that his name
would not be used in connection with
the affair. Events show that his efforts
in that direction were of no avail.

It is evident, those interested say,
that Sullivan and the bank have some
recent evidence or clues which have led
them to arrest Albertson. What evi-
dence can this be? | Perhaps they think,
the wily detectives have, in some man-
ner, secured the letter sent to Mr, Al-
bertson by. Chandler. They may have
intercepted itin the mails or have ob-
tained it in some other:manner. A re-
torter who investigated. the matter
obtained knowledge today which is the
basis of a conclusion that this theory is
correct toa great extent and that the

detectives have, in some manner. ob-
tained one or more communications
sent by Albertson, the embezzler to
his relatives in Tacoma. What the com-
munications contained is, as yet, a mys-
tery, but their contents are believed to
have proved very valuable knowledge to
the detectives. The question arises:
why does not Sullivan trap the embez-
zler with a decoy letter or trace the
Geater of these communications to his

SULLIVAN AND HIS AIDES;

The men whe assisted Sullivan in the
execution of his bold effort were the ex-
captain of “police, PB, D.-McKay, and
isaac Evans, a deputy sheriff of this
tity. Mz. Evans is one of Sheriff Price’s
most effitient deputies and is generally
regardedas a cool, level-headed fellow
who would not exceed his authority, He
stoutly denies that he represented him-
self to be-a deputy sheriff of King coun-
ty ‘even after be’ _confronted by
Albertson, Bailey and one Hammond
Lammont’ who claims to have overheard

Sheriff \ Ww lery,
rit 00] gt

nently connected with some of the most
outrageous scandals and breaches of the
laws and rights of citizens that ever dis-
graced # civilized State. The career of

is men in connection with the school.
book bribery case. at Olympia and. the
smooth but wholly dishonorable manner

in which he, extricated himself is well
known to the le.
His acts picable outlawry at

Franklin and the mining camps of King
county are too well. known to need repe-
tition. That he was not punished and
his career at that time stopped was due
to the powerful political and corporate
influence backing him. |

His latest outragesare of such aneture
that they have taken immediate hold
upon the publi¢ mind. His successful
and unsuccessful attempts at kidnaping,
of which Cohoon and Albertson and
Bailey have been the victims are very
apt to bring him at last to justice.

SULLIVAN IS SLICK.

| With his usual mendacity Sullivan
thus endeavors to shitt the blame onto
Deputy Ike Evans as related by the Se-
_attle Telegraph:

_ “Woaile the party waited for the late
train from Tacoma Sullivan, McKay and
Evans paced up and down in the wait-
jing room. Sullivan was very anxious
| to oe interviewed. ‘Why, my boy,’ said
“he to the reporter, ‘f had nothing at all
todo with this. Deputy Sheriff Evans
‘called on me*for assistance, but when
Albertson resisted I got out and went
away. I rode on the seat of the carriage
and did not mix up in the affair at all.
There was no secrecy about it, anyhow.
Isent up to’ the Telegraph oftice this
afternoon, I wanted you to have the
story. I also telephoned to Sheriif
Woolery, but he was not in,’ Sullivan
may have telephoned to Sheriff Woolery,
but the messenger sent to the Telegraph
office must have dropped dead or been
abducted by some rival detective agency,
ior he never reached any member of the
staff.”

This is quite as slick as the way he
got out of the school book bribery case,
where he proved there was no money
in the bank against which the check
used was drawn, and set up the plea
that the American Book Company had
employed him to test the honesty oi the
man whom his emissary had attempted
to bribe.

SULLIVAN MAY BE KILLED.

It was rumored on the street this
afternoon that a plan has been decided
upon by which the State is to be rid of |
the detectives’ chief at the hands of one
or two men who aré very bitterly op-
posed to his methods.

The plan is to assassinate him. Sulli-
van is said to be on his guard and to be
protected by a body guard of detectives.

