TRIAL OF MKAY.

to Return Sealed Verdict
in Kidnaping Case.

Jury

LAWYERS HAVE THEIR SAY.

— ee

Authority of Isaac Evans as an Officer
Questioned, and Liability of the
Defendant Debated.

Last night in Justice Von Tobel’s court the
trial was concluded of P. D. McKay for assist-
ing M. C. Sullivan and Isaac Evans in kidnap-
ing R. B. Albertson and W. E. Bailey on Sep-
tember 10. The jury went out at about 11
o’clock, and a sealed verdict will be opened this

at9. The room, as usual, was crowded

with deeply interested spectators.

of its argument on
night Jndge Burke gave the opening address
tothe jury for the state. He said that as the
case was presented from the witness stand
there was little or no attempt to deny the charge
of assault and battery upon R. B. Albertson.
The proof was as clear and conclusive as possi-
bie upon that point. The defense had not at-
tempted to deny the act charged, but rather had
tried to justify the act. This justification had
been that Evans was a deputy sheriff of Pierce
county, regularly appointed, and that he hada
regular warrant.

To this plea Judge Burke replied that Evans
Was notadeputy sheriff and knew he wasn't;
he had nogood warrant and knew he hadn't.
Furthermore, were he an officer and had he had
a valid warrant, he had no right to abuse his
power and make his authority a cover for wreng
doing.

Evans’ commission was not issued by the
present sheriff of Pierce county but by one who
took office January 12. The sheriff cannot appoint
deputies whose terms continue beyond his own
term; for a deputy is like a limboi a tree, which
falls when the tree falls. Then could McKay,
who was Evans’ bully and hired thug, justify
for doing uncer Evans’ direction that for which
Evans cou!d not justify himself? The idea that
the aid was justified, Judge Burke combatted by
reading « decision to the effect that when an
officer is liable his aids are liable.

Theecounse! forthe state further urged that
the warrant was invalid because there was an
alternative clause, saying that Albertson re-
ceived stolen goods, or he!ped to conceal them.
The warrant did not, as the law directs, contain
the charge, but contained an alternative.

Another point was thit under the Washington
code a warrant for a felony, issued from a justice
court must direct that the prisoner be
returned to the justice, or if he
be not present, to some other magistrate.
This is because the justice bas not jurisdiction
overafelouy. The warrant in question, which
waa fora felony, merely directed that the pris-
ernor be returned to the justice, Harry Sharpe.

Also, the warrant for R. B. Albertson, issued
September &, was not delivered by the justice
to the sheriff of Pierce county or to any officer,

but to M. c, Sullivan, a man
bot recognized by the law, a man
who, from the testimony, seemed to be

superior tothe law. When Sullivan gave the
warrant to Evans, the latter came to Seattle and
spent nearly two days without serving it. Was
that the conduct of an officer doing his duty?
Was he not prostituting his office for private op-
pression? When the afternoon of September 10
came, Evans watched for two hours
the door of the Haller block where
Albertson had his office. Finally Albertson was
arrested on the street while going to his dinner.
Albertson wanted to go to his office and arrange
for trial —the right of every Amer-
lean citizen. Sullivan, Evans and MeKay in-
sisted that Albertson get into the
hack. He agreed to do so if they would taxe
him to his office and they consented. When
onee they were in the hack, the driver started
down beyond the south limitof the city. The
evident intention was to kidnap and conceal
Albertson as Cohoon had been concealed. The
warrant was merely a cover for this dastardly
act.

But Sullivan, who laid this plan, made a mis-
take in procedure. Had Albertson been a
stranger in Seattle and without friends, he
would have been kidnaped as men are in the
heart of Russia. Had the three thugs done this
act without pretense ofa thing under law, the
case would not have been eo bad, but they pre-
tended to be cloaked by iaw;. they
took ths livery of heaven to serve the
devil. A highwayman could commit
no greater ontrage in the rights
of the community. Should not such an
act on the part of M. C, Sullivan be challenged?
Should he defy the law? This case against Mc-
Kay was the first challenge to check the villain
Sullivan in his lawlessness,

Had Evans desired to arrest Albertson, Albert- |

fon could have been found at any time.
Evans intended to make a legal ar-
Test, would he have calied in to
aid him such ruffians as Sullivan
and McKay? Would he not have applied to the
sheriffof King county for aid if he feared Al-
bertson would resist arrest? No; Evans was
not an officer, and he knew he wasn't: and he
hadn't an honest writ, and he knew he hadn't.
What could have been the objection to lettiag
Albertson give bail, or to notify his friends?

Evans confessed that he acted under direction
of Sullivan. Anofficer who aknowledred that
he was the tool and cat’s-paw of such aruf-
fian as Sullivan wes ae disgrace to
the state, a disgrace to hie cfiicial
position. The lesson should be taught that
there were legal and orderly methods of enfore-
ing the law, and that thugs who deiy the law
were not to be called in under cloak of law to
oppress houest citizens. ©

When Judge Barke had thus opened the case,
Judge Junius Rochester took up the law points
for the defense. He argued that Evaus’ com-
mission though issued before the present term of
Sherif James Price, of Pieice county, began was
practically good, because Price had repeatedly
recognized Evans asa deputy. As tor the right
to serve A Warrant in another county. several
cases Were cited showing that in other states
officers may go beyond their county limits to

Had

serve warrants. The statute declared that
processes shon!d be directed to the sheriff
of the eounty where the defenmlant ig

found, unless otherwise ordered by law. An-
Other section of the statute said that a sheriif
night go inte another county for his man, when
the latter escaped or Was absent from the
connty.

Judge Rochester declared that the case had
been made a great newspaper sensation. The
fact was that Albertson was arrested and guve

himself up to an officer. After that
Albertson began to fuss and have trouble
with tho officer. But there was no

Inaping, and tho crowd that rescued the
y men from the officer were simply a mob
Violating the law.

McKay was called upon by the deputy sheriff
to aasist in the arrest, as every citizen was likely

to becalled upon, Mr. Albertson received the
treatment secorded any other man against
whora a warrantis issued. The delay in serv-

ing t

he warrant was not unressonab e, and noone

had 1¥ malice avainst Mr Albertson or
Mr. Bailey. The officers came here to meke
t arrest, but it was a delicate matter, for the
princtpals had not yet been found. As Sullivan
was hunting the fugitives, it was proper that
the arrest should mot be made uutil sullivan
gave the word

» Rochester ridiculed the idea that kid-
ing Wes intended or had been committed
ns was simply act ng as a deputy sherilf,
and called McKay in to help him. Mckay,
under such circumstances, was compelled by
luw to assist

J. T. Ronald followed for the defense. He
denied that McKay was bound to take cogni:-
ance of the commission of the officer, Fvans
vans Was acting in good faith, and that was
enongh, The officer was not bound to know
the technical defects of a warrant or of the
complaint filed iu the court, Evaus received
the warrant from properly comstituted authori-
ties. Certainly aman calied upon to help «
eficer cannot inspect the warrant. Ther
fa mo time for delay and examination
Mr, Ronald cited severa! decisions to show that
even though an officer might be liable for mak-
ing an illegal arrest, still the citizeas whom he
calied in and who recognized his official de-

mand, were not liable Even bad Evans
no warrant, and even Were Fvans
not a deputy sheriff, yet Albert-
son had submitted himself tw Evans’ an-

thority, and so McKay was justified in assisting.
McKay was uot guilty simply because he came
from Tacoma. The real violation of the law
was by the reseuing party, which Judge Burke
headed.

Mr. Ronald complained that the newspapers
Were tryins to get the defendant into jail, and
thus justify opinions already set forth. Mr.
Ronaid also launched into a disgusition on Sul-

not a legitimate one.
Judge Von Tobel fustructed the jury that an

for the state.
into the city without process
laid violent hands on a citizen. The deputy
Evans had used the process as never intended,
hed used it as an instrument of oppression. The
warfant was not served in the usual way through
the authorities of King county. The arrest was

officer of Pierce county could serve a warrant
in any other county. An officer using undue
violence is liable. An officer can call in citi-
zeus for assistance; but the warrant would not
shield Mr. McKay if he knew the warrant was
being used as an instrument of oppression.

Atter the jury had been out some time, the
counsel agreed that a sealed verdict should be re-
turned, and Mr. Ronald announced that were
MeKay declared guilty he would appeal and
give bond.

CHANDLER BOUND OVER.

Ed Albertson Shot Without Being
Given a Chance to Surrender.

TACOMA, Sept. 21.—{Special.]—Fred N. Chan-
dler, the accomplice of Ed Albertson in the
Fidelity Trust Company bank robbery, this
afternoon waived examination in Justice
Sharpe's court, and in default of $20,000 bonds
was tuken back to the county
He smoked a cigar with all the
graces ot the man who , takes
pride in his record of being “fine as silk." Dep-
uty Sheriff Croake brought him into court, and it
took only three minutes to fix upthe case and
remand Chandler. The public not being aware
that the hearing was to take place, there were no
visitors preset. Those who expected to bear:
him plead either guilty or not guilty are dis-
appointed,

Guy K. Luellyn, an attache of the Evening
ews, who was in the vicinity of Gardiner, Or.,
when the capture of Albertson and Chandler
was made, telegraphs the News as follows:

A’bertson and Chandler were captured here
by Lampkin, of Tacoma, ard Sherif Cochrane,
ot Lane county. Albertson was sbot without
an opportunity being given him to surrender,

jail.

_and his life is despaired of. The capture is

called here a most cowardiy one.

A gentleman who has word direct from the
scene of the capture, said this evening to the cor-
respondent of the Post-INTELLIGENCER:

I am told that the deputy sberilf and the Sulli-
van detectives pranced about like so many
Sioux Indians. Yor atime there was, | am told,a
blaze of fire and reports from probably every gun
carried by the enptors. Lampkin with a4d4-caliber
Winchester rifle, I am told, fir d the shot that
struck Albertson. i believe Lampk'n and not
the — sheriff shot Albertsoa, and that
Lampkin is keeping out of the way pending a
turn in Albertson's condition,

The feet that three diamonds were taken from
Albertson's person when captured has resulted
in conjectures about his habits previous to the
time Mrs. Albertson arrived here from the Kast
last fall, it being beld that he bought much
ladies’ jewelry und presumably gave the saine
to some woman other then his wife.

Sullivan admitted tonight to the carrespond-
ent of the Post-INTELLIGENCER that Deputy
Sheriff Cochrane was not the only man who had
shot when the the capture was made. All of
the captors had taken a hand in theshooting. He
offers no reason for uot furnishing this
information before. He claims that even
if lampkin did = shoot Albertson and
the wound proves fatal, he would not be
guiity of murder, as he, being a member of a
sheriff's posse, had a right to shoot a fugitive
from justice. Besides, he claims, Lampkinis a
United States marshal, and as such would have
a right to make the = arrest. When
Lampkin was at the King ccunty
mines Marshal Brown denied that he had
deputized him toact as a United States marshal.
Sullivan says that Lampkia’s commission has
never been revoked, and can only be revoked by
a United States court. When asked why Lamp-
kin had kept out of the waysince Albertson was
shot, Sullivan laughs and says he is working
on another case, Chandler escaped being shot
by falling down in the boat.

Sullivan left tonight by the Portland train,
and says he is going to California. Some say he
is going to Oregon to see Albertson. He denies
that he is.
