TWO MEN STOLEN.

“Detective” Sullivan Tries
Kidnaping in Seattle.

A PENITENTIARY OFFENSE.

W. E. Bailey and R. B. Albert-
sou Carried Off by Force.

THE ASDUCTORS RUN DOWN.

Intense Indignation of the People
Over the High-Handed Outrage.

The «‘Detective,’’ Imagining That Mr. Al-
berteor Has Knowledge of a Tacoma
Robbery, Decoys Him Into a Carriage,
Toward Tacoma—Mr. Eailey Ee-
fuses to Leave His Friend—
A Posse Starts After the
Kidnspers, Then a Trainload of Peo-
ple—Sullivan and His Captives Over-
hauled at Black River Junction and
Brought Back—The Hidvaper Ke-
leased on Bonds—It’s an Old Trick
of His.

In broad daylight yesterday R. B. Al-

bertson, the well-known lawyer of the
firm, Preston, Albertson & Donworth, and
Wiliam E. Bailey, the prominent Seattle
capitalist, proprietor of the Press- Times, and
president or stockholder im half a dozen
financial institutions, were kipnaped by
M. C. Sullivan and two of his detectives.
Mr. Albertson and Mr. Bailey were
driven in a closed carriage through the
streets of Seattle, down the Grant street
bridge and out to Black River Junction, to
take the train for Tacoma. But when that
train came into the station there Judge
Burke, Chief Bolton Rogers, two or three
officers more and half a dozen of the
friends of Mr. Bailey and Mr. Albertson
were aboard. Sullivan and his men were
arrested for assault, Bailey and Albertson
were rescued and brought back to the city
with the tables turned and the kidnapers
as prisoners.
The abduction was the outcome of an at-
tempt to arrest Albertson on the charge of
receiving some of the notes and bonds
stolen by his cousin, Edward Albertson,
the absconding teller of the Tacoma Fidel-
ity and Trust Company. The warrant was
defective and Albertson resisted. Mr.
Bailey joined in the resistance, and the
men were kidnaped.

When the party came back from Black
river, Sullivan and his two deputies, Mc-
Kay and Evans, gave bail; and R. B.
Albertson will be arrested this morning.

THE KIDNAPING.

How the Men Were Taken Inte the
Fiack and Carried Of.

M.C. Sullivan and his detectives have been
shadowing Albertson for some time Yes-
terday afternoon at about 5:3 he
came out of his office with Mr. Bailer, who
bad been consulting him on business, and with
his partner, George Donworth. Mr. Donworth
sterte@? for his home in North Sesttle, and
Alverteon and Bailey went up the hill
to the Rainier club, where they live,
to get dinner. Ther were on Third street, eoing
from Marion to Medison, and near Madison,
when they met M.C. Sullivan and two Pierce
county deputy sherifls, McKsy and Evans James
T. Kochsparger, of Philadelphia, an agentoi the
company that went bond for the absconder,
Edward Alberteon, was standing near.

Evans stepped up and served cn R
B. Albertson os warrant issued 6 by
a Tecoms justice, Harry Sharp,
and charging Mr. Albertson with receiving
$2,090 of the stolen bonds and notes of the
Fidelity companys.

Mr. Albertson noticed thet the warrant was
not indorsed by a King county justice, and he
dGeciared the document defective.

Then Scllivan and McKay stepped up and
laid bands oa Albertson, McKay threatening to
bandcuff him i! he resisted.

Albertson was game and strurgied, declaring
that he would not go A knock-down-
and-drag-out fcht on the open street
seemned imminent when Mr. Bailey surerested
that in order to evoid unpleasantness all five of
them go down to Mr. Albertson's office in
the Haller block and settle the difficulty.
Mr. Albertson said that after consulting with
his partner, Donworth, he would make no ob-
jection to the service of a proper warrant

Sullivan and his men ecreed, and all got inte
the bark to ride down, except McKay, who
mounted the box with the driver, and Koch-
spercer, who remained behind.

Cnce the men were in, the curtains were
drawn. Mr. Bailer objected, but Sullivan re-
plied that he wanted to have the affair kept as
quiet as possibile. The carriage went cown the
hill and past the Haller biock.

Then Albertson and Beiley jumped to their
feet and asked where they were being taken.

“To the sberid's!"

“What sheriff's?”

“The sher ff of Pierce county!”

“How are we going?”

“By train!” seid Sullivan.

Albertson violentiy objected; asked if he
couldn't telephone to his office: begged to send
a@ messenger to his partners.

“You caw telepmene when we get to the
station,” wns Sullivan's rejoinder.

But the heck didn’t ge te the staiion. With
the curtains still drawn tightly the wheels were
turned offto the southeast.

In afew moments the horses hoofs touched
the Grant street bridge.

“Let them ont!” relied McKay.

John King, the driver, swung his whip. The
lash curled around the beorses’ ioins The ani-
mils sprang forward. The lash was plied again
and sgain. They broke from a rapid trot intwos
gallop and went clattering down the bridge.

Then s fierce sirucgie tezgan insite
the carriage. Albertson tore down
curtain avd hammered cn the window.
He shouted to tha passers-by. at
this Sullivan choked him teubk into bis sest and
Evans ereppied bim around the waist.

Albertson wWrithed and
hands of his captors, and he yet carries
on his wrists the bruises of the fich

the

strucgied in the |

His cost was torn and his hat fell off inte the |
mud. Im his helpless race he cursea Suilivan |

and Evans, but was choked again into silence.
Bailey joined Alperison in the fight. pushed
open the doorand made several sttempis to get
out and stop the borses or civean alarm. Exch
time the detectives pulled bim back, and finally
Sailivan tapped his hip pocket end said, “! bere
some meaicine here that will quiet you.”
Finally Scllivan cot tired of the struggic, rot
ont, mounted the box, and let McKay fet into
the carriage % carry on the war with the cap-

the plank rosd, and the bourses
into as trot ior the iong drive dows
the valley. Alberison and Baiter,

|

mage Gesperate attempt to get
Albertson and Bailey into Pierce comnty. The
cause of the trouble was not knowa, and the
widest conjectures were afloat.

It took but a iew minutes to arouse

following warrant before Justice Von Tobel:
Waengas, Thomas Burke has this day com-
plained in writing under oath to the
undersigned, justices of
the peace, eid county,
that the i0th dary of September, —— Seattle,
in said county of King aud state of Weshington,
one M. C. Sullivan did commit the crime of as-
Sanit with a dead!y weapon.

With this as a legal weapon, the serrices of

_ Chief of Police Bolton Rogers and Officers Jack

Barek and Cudihee were secured. They
hurried down ww take the 5:30 train
for Tacoma, but like Sullivan they found it
late. Then efforts were made to get aspecial,
but lL A. Nadeau, the general agent of the North-
ree atte could not be found until it was tes

Meantime the following two telegrams came

from Black River Junction, st « little afters
o'clock :

W. E. Batter.
Brack River Junction.
G. Rainier Clab: Take cvening

Z Preston,
train for Tacoma. I am waiting here for thas
train. Bring bonworth if you enn.
K. B. ALBERTSON.

(Rint nani hn an tg ee a ee

-» 2. ALPE Strves.

These instructions were not obered, however,
for the friends of the men were jurious, and
the city was aghast et the boldness of the out-

Tage.
Atabout Wo clock the

a8 special deputies by Justice Von Tobel, abram
Barker, R. H. Goldie, Joseph Gavin and one

lit
His
lla

“Held on a warrant!” shouted the judge;
“you thieves, you felons, you kidnapers, we'll
bave you all in the penitentiary in afew woeks,”

this party Ill b ammer your head int a jelly.”

Chief Rogers, “I'll take
care of this man,” and be led Evans of into the
station.

In twenfy minutes the overland for Seattle
reached the junction and al] got aboard. Arriv-
ing bere they drove to the police headquarters
where the matter was settled.

THE WAEEANTS ISSUED.
Temporary Cherges Fiaced Against Sual-
livan and His Men.

The complaint which Prosecuting Attorney
Miller prepared and which was sworn to by
Albertson, charged Sullivan with assaalt with a
dGesdiy weapon, aud McKay and Evans with
essaultand betiery. Justice Von Tobel fixed
Sullivan's bail at $1,000, and that of the other
twoat et Seach. Sulliven was released on
his own recognizance, and he was ac-
cepted as bondsman for the other
two, as he has large property interests
in thecity. Ir is contemplated to have them
tried om & more serious charge, and the ob

ject of placing lght charges against
hem wes for the purpose of  buwid-
ing them for se preliminary hearing,

whieh will take plare at 1:3) ociock this
eiterncon in Justice Von Tobel’s court.
Perry King, the hackdriver, was released
without bail, as it was thought he
conid be found at any time to act asa witness,
One pervlisr jeature of the aiair is the fact thas
of the four King was the only man “sent be-
low.”

3. T. Ronald appeared for the defendants,
baring been sent forto his residence by Sulli-
van, aud on his advice the warrant from Pierce
country for the arrest of Albertson was
turned over to Sheriff Woolery for service.
The sheriff will serve it this morning. A
Ronald sugrested that Evans could have Bailey
arrested, ii be chose, for interfering with ag
officer.

ME. ALEEERTSON'S STORY.
How the Kidnapping Was Carried Out
by Bratal Detectives.

The story as told by Albertson himself is ap
follows “] happen to be so cousin of
that raseal Edward <Alberison. who keted
the Tacoma Fidelity and Trust Compans. linew
him as a boy, bat he came west when quits
young, and I sew nothing of him a@iter thas
till three years ago, when I came to Seattle
to live. Since then I have met him half « dosen
times, here and in Tacoma, but we have neveg

icliowed me eonstantiy
since. Last week Tuoeeday I went te
New Westminster with Mr. Mitchell, agents
of the Edisom Electric Commeny. My bust

as )6€6h counsel of the
company to see about closing the contract for
an <¢lectric road between Vancouver and Neg
Westminster, and yet the detectives followe@

statement ie ] shall not say now, but it will ap.
pear later. i declare, however, that J have bad
