ALLEGED ABDUCTORS RETURN.

Detective Sullivan Says He Acted in Ac-
cordance With Law.

Detective Sullivan, Deputy Sheriff
Evans and Detective Koshsperger of the
Pinkerton agency arrived in this city
last evening from Seattle. A LepGer
reporter aroused Sullivan from his sleep
at the Tacoma hotel late in the evening
ph asked him what he had to say in re-
gard to the statements made concernin
the alleged abduction of Albertson and
Bailey. “I don’t know what there is to
Say about the matter. Aman doesn’t
care to discuss a ridiculous proposition,”
was thereply. “There was no abduc-
tion and no attempt at abduction.
ge Evans started to serve

is warrant in the proper manner.
I supposed the papers dereak :
and had no reason to think otherwise.
nin gd Sheriff _Evans had the warrant,
and I had nothing to do with his part of
the business, He did not act under my
instructions in any way. I told Evans
however, that he could have one of our
men if he needed him and wanted him.
Evans did not know Albertson by sight
and!simply pointed him out, and did
not intend to have anything to do with
taking him to Tacoma, until I saw them
wrangling at the carriage. I was haifa
block away at the time, and I went up.
Albertson and one of our men were in
the carriage, and Albertson wanted
Evans to tet Bailey accompany him. He

appealed tome and I advised Evans to
let Bailew go. I never heard an officer
abused so in all my life, as Evans was
by those two men. They began abusing
meand i got out of the carriage and
took a seat with the driver.
Talk of Bailey being kitinaped is
simply absurd. Why,at one time the
officers threatened to put him out of the
carriage, and they would have done so
if he had not quieted down.”’

“It is said that Evans or you, or who-
ever had charge of the affair, had no
authority to arrest Albertson in Seattle
on a warrant issued in Pierce county,”
remarked the reporter.

“T never beend of any law requiring
an officer to go to a justice in another
county to get his indorsement toa war-
rant issued in some other county for the
arrest of a man in his jurisdiction.
Although I have made a great many
arrests during the past eight years I
have never been required to do so, and
some of the best lawyers and legal talent
in Seattle and elsewhere have the same
opinion asI in this matter. I am not
a lawyer, but I believe that Deputy
Sheriff Evans had a right to act ashe
did. There are two sides to this matter,
and I think the officers will certainly
show to every fair-minded man that
they acted as they should.”

When asked if any trace had been
found of the defaulting cashier, Sullivan
hesitated a moment and then said:
“There is nothing definite yet.”
