ALBERTSON'S STATEMENT.

R. B. Albertson was interviewed by a
News-reporter in Justice Sharp’s court
this morning. Albertson shows very
plainly the effect of the disgraceful posi-
ion in which he is placed by the charge
against him.  His eyes were red and
swollen and under them there were dark
rings, showing that he had passed a
sleepless night.  His voice trembled as
he spoke and he seemed to be consumed
with indignation and grief.

He is about 5 feet 8 inches in height, of
very slender buidl and a very sparse, light 
brown mustache adorns his upper lip.  He was
dressed modelstly this morning in a suit of
Scotch cheviot.  He said:

"there is positively no basis or foundation
for this charge.  Sullivan is one of those penetrating
detectives who suspects every relative and friend
of an accused man.  While I do not wish to
make any threats, still I do not propose to 
suffer this outrage to go unpunished.  Ever
since this thing happened Sullivan's detectives
have dogged my every step.  A few days ago I went
to New Westminster and one of his men
shadowed me all the way.  Sullivan himself has
bulldozed and browbeaten me in the endeavor
to accomplish the impossible. He has wanted me
to tell him where Alberston is.  I don't know where
he is.  he is my cousin, and that fact is disgrace
enough, and I am sorry enough for it without
being charged with being his accomplice.  Sullivan
has tried to make me tell where he is and what he
has done with the securities, and I know nothing 
at all about it.  He has been in my office and has 
threatened me with all sorts of punishment if I did
not tell what I do not know.  But, by the gods, if 
there is law in Washington, every man connected
with this affair will be prosecuted.  This man,
T.B. Wallace, wired me Monday night asking me
to come to Tacoma.  I answered that he could 
find me at my office at any time.  He then, in
connection with Sullivan, hatched this plan to get
me to Pierce County.  The warrant was never
countersigned by any local justice, nor was any
official ever consulted about it.  I have never
dreamt of such treatment being accorded an 
American Citizen.  Mr. Wallace will be attended
to in due time."

Albertson's story of the attempted abduction is 
the same as that of Mr. Bailey.
