HOW THEY WERE CAUGHT.

The Thieves Walk Boldly Toto the Trap
Laid for Them.
By Associated Press,

Portianp, Sept. 17.—Edward Alber
son and Fred Chandler, the Tacoma F
delity bank robbers, were arrested last
night four miles below Gardiner, in Coos
county, by Charles A. Lampkins. ex-
deputy United States marshal of Ta-
coma, assisted by W. A. Cochrane of
Eugene, (i. N. Moore of Gardiner and
J.T. Thompson of Florence. The arrest
was effected by a well arranged plan
skiilfully carried into execution,

Albertson and Chandler were taken
completely by surprise, and, being or-
dered to throw up their hands, they
were slow to comply. Chandler’s hands
finally went up, while Albertson reached
for his revolver. Lampkins was too
quick, however, and shot, simply to
cripple the now’ desperate defaulter,
making only a flesh wound.

The men were then easily captured
and taken to Gardiner, where medical
aid wasimmediately summoned. Albert-
son hasthe best of care and is resting
easily. Chandler talks frecly and exen-
erates all others than himself and Al-
bertson from complicity in the robbery,
but will not give any details leading to
the robbery of the bank.

Lampkins will take Chandler out by
way of Drain to-morrow. Albertson will
be left in charge of Deputy Sheriff Coch-
rane until able to be removed.

Albertson’s wound is in the side, brut
the shot will not prove fatal. Itis seri-
ous enough, however, to prevent his re-
movat for several days. The captives
admit their identity and bad about
$10,000 in their possession when taken.

THEY ARE TAKEN BY SURPRISE,

MArsurie.p, Or., Sept. 17.—The cap-

ture was made according to a precon-
certed plan, which was carefully carried
out. The plan was to meet Albertson
and Chandler at a point to which the
party was to bring them in a boat; and
Charles A, Lampkins of Tacoma, W. W.
Cochrane of Eugene, G. N. Moore of
Gardiner and a young man named
Thompsor, from Suislaw, repaired to
the spot selected. Shortly atter 10
o'clock on Tuesday night, one, whom
the absconders believed to be a friend,
took the two men ina small boat, with
their persona! effects, to a place selected,
and all four of the captors sprang from
close ambush and ordered the men in
the boat to throw up their hands, stat-
ing that they were officers. _Coch-
rane covered Chandler with his
shotgun and his hands went
up. They agz cried “Hold up your
hands!"’ Instead of complying, Albert-
son backed off and threw both hands to
his hip pockets as if to draw his revol-
ver. Moore and Lampkins fired, and
one bullet passed through Albertson's
left side, making a painful flesh wound,
and passing out at the back. Albertson
staggered, gave a single groan and fell
tothe ground. Albertson bad nothing
to say but Chandler remarked to his
captors while being conveyed to Gardi-
ner in the boat, “If you will give mea
chance for my life by allowing me to
jump overboard, I'll take my _ chances
with the handcuffs on.’ He then
wanted permission to take his rubber
coat off but the officers would nst per-
mit him to do so, fearing that he
wanted to jump overboard. The men
were quickly conveyed to the hotel
at Gardiner, where medical aid was at
onee procured and Albertson’s wound
attended to. During the night Albertson
suffered considerable and complained of
severe pains in his side d yomited
some, which seemed to distress him
greatly. Toward morning he slept.
chandler was wide awake and only con-
sented to retire when urged by an officer
todo so. Someone has helped the two
men near Gardiner and kept them well
supplied with food.

during an interview with Prosecuting
Attorney Condon, Chandler revealed a
disturbed state of mind two or three
times, but soon recovered himself when
a good-natured remark was interposed.
Albertson was in no condition to talk
and said nothing. While the officers de-
plore the wound, it seemed necessary to
inflict it on Albertson. Chandler will
be taken out to-morrow (Friday), via
Drain, while Albertson will remain in
charge of Cochrane until able to be
moved safely.

