THE TRIPLICATE AGREEMENT.

Woodmansee Tells How He Got It and
Says the Bank Broke Falih.

Tacoma, Sept. 18.—[Special.J—“If any acei-
dent should heppen to me you wil! know how
to use this.” These words, scrawled upon the
face of an oblong envelope in the bandwriting
of Fred N. Chandler, Edward Albertson's accom-
plicein the Fidelity Trust Company hank rob-
bery, is the only clue possessed by L. L. Wood-
mansee as to Who scat the only copy of the now
famons triplicate agreement to him. News of
the fact that the agreement had been turned
over to the bank created renewed Interest in the
case When the Post-INTELLIGENCER Was circu.
lated here this rs

A. N. Moffatt, T. B. Wallace and & correspon-
dent of the Post-INTELLIGENCER are the only
persons besides Mr. Woodmansee who have
thus far examiued the chirography of the note
which accompanied agreement. The agree-
ment itself had sutiy been copied by the
sane person who penned the note, and Chandler
is the man who wrote the note. Mr. Woodmeun-
see, and not the writer of the note, stated that
it was “like Carrying dynamite’ to have the

In an interview received too late for publica-
tion in today’s Post-INTELLIGENER, he said:

. “A Portiand friend introduced me to Chandler
lastspring, and he afterward came down to the
wharf fishing. He could tell a good story, and
‘stayed about the ticket oflice with the boys. I
saw him go to Seattle in June, I think it was,
and I think it was then he saw R. B. Albertson
about drawing up those agreements. I turned
the agreement over to the bank with the under-
standing that my name was not te be mentioned

man to see me in reference to matter,
half a dozen men have asked me about the
poco ashes ech grenpe Pigs on pS
send agreement to me, except for pure
pose of keeping it ont of the hands of his
captors, whom he probably thought might de-
stroy it. I take it he and Albertson believed the
agreement would help them out of the scrape
should they be captured.”

Mr. Woodmansee desires it distinctly under-

i
ue
i
ie
