KILLED FOR HIS MONEY.

William Radloff Burned to Cin-
ders With His Home.

A FORMER FRIEND SUSPECTED.

‘He Is Arrested With Several In-
criminating Papers Upon Him.

A Wealthy Citizen’s Charred Remains
Found in the Ruins of His Lonely

Home—Large Koll of Money in His
Possession—Louis Kostrauch in Jail.

The house of William Radloff, a well-to-

‘do rancher living on a branch of the Rich-
‘mond Beach road four miles north of
Woodiand Park, was found to have been
burned to the ground yesterday morning,
with the half-cremated remains of Rad-
lJoff on the ruins of his bed. All the cir-
cumstances of the case lead to the con-
clusion that some person murdered
Radloff, robbed him of a considerable sum
of money which he had taken home on
the previous evening, and then fired the
house to destroy the evinence of the crime.
Suspicion points to Louis Kostrauch as
the guilty man and he has been arrested
to await the result of further investiga-
tion, He had lived with Radloff for some
time, as they were old friends, and claimed
to have worked for him, but friends of the
dead man say he was sim ply 4aken into
the house out of charity. He left the
rsnch last Tuesday. Radloff leaves a wife
and child, who left him about two weeks
ago and are now with Mrs. Radloff’s
parents near Tacoma. Some facts in the
case seem to connect Mrs. Radloff with
Kostrauch, though the evidence of that
nature is slight. Radioff also hasa brother
named Albert living in this city.

Radloff came to Seattle Friday morning
and on his way stopped at Dr. Bailard’s,
in Fremont, and told him that he would
pay him later in the day abill of $100 for
medica! attendance. He also ordered
Frederick Pruessing, the baker on Pike
street, between Fourth and Fifth, to have
his bill ready in the afternoon and he
would callin on his way home and pay it.
During the day he was with his brother
Albert and was seen with Kostrauch, who
had been living at his ranch until a few
days ago. Itis claimed that Radloff ex-
pected to realize a large sum of money
from some mining stocks, the saleof which
he had negotiated. However that mav be,
he obtained a considerable sum from some
source and started home. He neglected to
stop at either the bakery or at
Dr. Ballard’s, but did stop at the
the house of a neighbor’s named Stewart,
who lives about a mile from his ranch, and
took supper. Before going he oifered to
pay his host a bill which he owed him,
end, drawing a large roll of bills from his
pocket, handed out $50, but Stewart was
unable to change it. Radloff then asked
Stewart to come to town the next morn-
ing, saying he would pay himthen. The
conversation was general, and Radloff
mentioned his intention of going to Ger-
manyin May. About 9 o'clock he left for
home.

Early yesterday morning Stewart arose
and went to Radloff’s house, expecting to
find-his friend ready to start for the city.
The sight that met his eyes was far differ-
ent from that he expected. The house
was burned to the ground and not a trace
of a living being could be found. A closer
examination revealed the bones of a
human being lying upon the remnants of
a charred matress,

A Swede who works for Mr. Patterson, a
rancher, who lives near Radloff’s house,

_ claims that he heard a pistol shot about 11
o'clock, two hours after Radloff left Stew-
art’s house.

Stewart notified the nearest neighbors of
his discovery, and while some went to
watch the scanty remains others hastened
to Fremont and telephoned to Coroner
Horton, who went on Bonney & Stewart’s
dead wagon to the scene of the tragedy.
When the coroner arrived the ruins were
Surrounded by a small gathering of set-
tlers, who had heard the news and hast-
ened to the spot.

The house, which was a one-and-a-half-
Btory, had been completely demolished,
and the chimney had fallen to pieces, cov-
ering one corner, where a rifle was sup-
posed to be. The remnants of the bed
Were on the west side of the house,
and contained nothing but the mere
skeleton of a human being. The flames
had burned the bedcloth+s, the bed and
the mattress to ashes. The portionof a
human form visible to the eyesof the
coroner consisted only of bones, all the
flesh being gone, The head was gone, the
legs and arms were nothing but ashes and
the links of the back bone crumbled to
dust when touched. The neck, a portion
of the chest and both hip bones were in
fairly recognizable form, and stuck to one
of the bones was a piece of cloth-
ing. Although it was badly
burned, some of those present rec og-
nized the cloth as similar to that
Worn by Radloff. It was weil known that
Radloff wore a gold watch and chain, and
carried a revolver, but no trace of any of
these articles could be found. Close by
the bones and half buried in cinders, an
&x was discovered. The handle had been
burned off. Coroner Horton made close
examination of the blade for traces of
blood, but if there were any, the chemical
action of the heat and tire nad destroyed
them, A shotgun and rifie known to
have been owned by Radloff were missing,
butthe bricks from the chimney covered
the spot where the shotgun stood, and itis
said that the rifle is in Tacoma at the
home of Mrs. Radioff’s parents.

Coroner Horton impaneled 4 jury, con-
sisting of M. Densmore, Chris Thorn,
William Gehring, J. F. Patterson, A. E.
Stewart and C. C. Mellinger. As no per-
80n Was present who could testify to hav-
ing seen the fre. or observed any one
Coming from Radloft’s house the night
previous, the coroner instructed the jury
and adjourned the inquest until Monday
afternoon, thus allowing time for the col-
lection of new evidence. The remains
Were placed in a receiving box and brought
to Bonney & Stewart's undertaking rooms,
Where the brother Albert and Louis
Kostrauch, who left the ranch last Tues-
day, were waiting to learn the particulars.

As soon as the news of the tragedy
Teached the city yesterday morning De-
tective Edward Cudihee was detailed to
Make a close inspection for evidences of
foul play. He visited the European house,
on Sixth street, where Albert Radloff and
Louis Kostrauch stopped. He learned from
the landlady that Kostrauch had been
at the house the night before at 8 o'clock,
but whether he went out or not she did not 
know.  Albert Radloff was found later and 
imparted the news that his brother was in
the city Friday and tha he had seen him about
11 o'clock in the morning with Kostrauch,
but did not hear of him again until the news of
his death was brought to him by Stewart
yesterday forenoon.  Detective Cudihee
found Kostrauch at Bonney & Stewart's and
entered into conversation with him.  Kostrauch 
said that he had not seen William Radloff since
Tuesday morning, when he (Kostrauch) left the ranch
and came to the city to live. He had come
to the city simply because he had got
through work. Radioff owed him about
$80. Kostrauch answered all ques-
tion Willingly, and went to
police headquarters with the detective
without the least objection. In the pres-
ence of Chief Jackson, Captain Sims and
Mr. Cudihee the questioning was contin-
ued in the form of a conversation. Kos-
trauch was perfectly cool and collected.
He answered all questions promptly and
without hesitation. Finally he tripped
and admitted that he saw Radioff in the
city Friday. The officers concluded to
hoid him on suspicion and searched his
person. A receipt for a registered letter
maiied at Seattle on the 15th and
addressed to Radloff’s wife, who
was in Tacoma, or at Lake Bay near that
city, came first, Detective Cudihee said:

“How do you account for this? Thought
yousaid you did not see Radloff in the
city yesterday.”

_Kostrauch did not lose his self-posses-
sion in the least. He blushed for an in-
Stantand then said: “I wasin error; I
had not thought of it.””

“How did you come in possession of this
receipt?”

His reply was that Radloff had given it
to him, thinking that he might possibly
go to Tacoma or give it to his wife.

Among other things was a verse of
poetry signed by Mrs. Jennie Radloff, ex-
pressive of love. Kostrauch laughed and
replied that that was a note from Mrs.
Radloff to her husband, but he found it on
the floor and kept it. A certificate of 100
shares, value $1 each, in the Snoqualmie
Morning Star Mining and Smelting Com-
pany, made to William Radloff and signed
by President John G. Myers, November 1,
1890, was in one pocket. In answer to
oe he said that a fellow gave it to

im.

“For how much?” was asked.

“Five dollars a share.”

“What! $500 for it?”

“No; $10 for the certificate. The man
told me to say I paid $5 a share.”

Kostrauch was questioned closely con-
cerning where he was Friday night and
replied that he was down town at 8 o’clock
but went home at 11 and retired for the
night, [t was also discovered that Kos-
trauch rented lock box No. 1,269 under the
name of Fred N. Foster. He’ admitted
that he used the name sometimes.

Atthe conciusion of the investigation
Kostrauch was placed under arrest on
suspicion of being a party to the killing of
William Radloff.

Whatever connection the suspected man
may have with the tragedy, it is said that
he displayed great grief when first in-
formed of the death of his friend. Stew-
art, who discovered the ruins and charred
remains, came to the city at
once and went to Pruessing’s bakery,
where he knew Radloff had strong friends
who would be anxious to learn about
his death. He found Albert Kadloff there
and,on hearing the terrible news, the
latter went to find Kostrauch, A little
later they returned together and held an
excited discussion in the corner. Both
cried, and to all appearances the friend
was as deeply grieved as the brother,
After the first tiood of tears was
stopped they went to Bonney
& Stewart’s to await the arrival of Coroner
Horton.

While there Albert came to the conclu-
sion that he would start for Tacoma and
inform Mrs, Radloff, who was living with
her parents, of the tragic death of her
husband. Albert Radioff was seen
a short time before he started and, while
grief was plainly visible in hig counten-
ance, his words did not indicate that he
suspected or had any idea that his
brother’s death was surrounded by a deep
mystery.

William Radloff was born of a respecta-
able family in Mecklenburg, Germany, in
the year 1865. Atthe age of 20 years he
came to the United States in company
with his brother Albert and located in
Seattle. William, who was a baker by trade,
found employment in the bakery of
Adolph Krug, now city treasurer. For

four years he drove a wagon, and
then by a change in the firm
became a partner with Mr. Krug.

After the great fire the bakery was
moved to North Seattle, and in the fall of
1889 Radloff, who was always talking about
ranching, sold out his interest in the
bakery to Mr. Krug for $1,500 in cash.
While in business he bought a sixty-
foot lot on Sixth street, near Olive street,
He disposed of twenty feet on the side
next the Bowers hotel and bought ten feet
onthe other. By these transactions he

made some money. and __ erected
the Radloff block. He sola
this property for about $8,000.

He also purchased three lots in Tacoma,
the value of which is not known. After
retiring from business he bought a five-
acre tract four miles north of Woodland |
park, built a house on it, cleared it and
started achicken ranch. His wife, whose
maiden name was Virginia Crevitson, and |
to whom he was married about two and |
one-half years ago, lived part of
the time at the ranch and the rest
of the time in Tacoma with her parents.
Two weeks ago she left the ranch, taking
with her her 18-month-old baby, for a visit
toher parents in Tacoma. She stopped
two nights at the Idaho block on Pike
street and spent the day driving about the
city. Her hushand was satislied to re-
main on the ranch, taking care of his
fancy poultry and making preparations
for his trip to Germany.

It is said that last winter Mrs. Radloff
went to a fortune-teller, who told her that
her husband would not live a year. She

told him of this, and he immedi-
ately took out life insurance, On
good authority it has been stated

that his life was insured _for $55,000,
divided as follows: Mutual Life, of New
York, $15,000; Equitable, of New York,
$20,000; New York Life, $20,000. The
agents of the Mutual deny that they in-

sured him; the Equitable agents
admit that he applied, but = say
they did not accept him, while

the New York Life agents say that he was
insured by them one month ago for $20,-
000. He passed a first-class examination,

| and, on being asked if he was able to make

from the landlady that Kostrauch had
been at the house the night before at
o’elock, but whether he went out or not
she did not know. Albert Radloff was
found later and imparted the news that
his brother was in the city Friday and
that he had seen him about 11 o'clock
in the morning with Kostrauch, but |
did not hear of him again until the news
Of his death was brought to him by Stew- |
Qrt yesterday forenoon, Detective Cudi-
hee found Kostrauch at Bonney & Stew-
art's and entered into conversation with

im. Kostrauch said that he had not
Been William Radloff since Tuesday morn-
Dg, when he (Kostrauch) left the ranch

the payments, replied that he had an in-
come from Germany every three months
sufficient to pay the premium. ;

Louis Kostranch, the suspect, claims to
be a strong friend of the dead man. He
lived for some time with Radloff on his
ranch, and, while in the city, has been in- |
timate with Albert Radloff. He is
a small man, has rosy cheeks, 8 chin |
beard and bright black eyes, is well edu- |
cated and speaks good English. His man-
ner is straightforward and, in talking, he

ot betray the least nervousness.
an Manchke, a relative of Radloff,
telegraphed from Tacoma last evening to
Chief of Police Jackson for information
concerning the case.

i re ission to |

Examination of spplicants for ddm 0 |
the Ellensburg Normal -chool, for the term be-
agust 22, 1892, will be held at the

se ip Seatt.e on Saturday, April 23, be- |

ginning at» o'clock a. m

"s Fane Cre . You get |

Ask for J. B. Agen’s Fancy Creamery

it for 30 cents per pound. No light weigot Do-
you see the point?

Nordhoff & Co. are showing children’s trimmed
hats in every variety, from 1) cents ap.

Complete infants’ outfits very cheap at La-
ol le eee

vo of & C utand Cedar stree Te-

Nordhoff & Co., Frou "Ze

| ceived by express new shaded straw hats.

novelties in fancy braids anid new flowers. ney
are offering them at very reasouabie prices. in-
spection invited. oe |

leit to be sold out at }

A few more $10 portieres
