FOOLISH BOY'S TRICK

Though a Millionaire’s Son, He
‘ Steals Diamonds.

HE SOON MAKES RESTITUTION.

The Owner's Husband Wants Money
and Causes His Arrest—A Prisener .
for the Night.

Boyd Cobb, the son of @ millionaire
merchant of Stockton, Cal, is in the city
jail charged with the grand larceny of a
diamond bracelet, although he confessed
the crime and made restitution almost im-
mediately after committing it,

Cobb, who is not yet of age, came to Se-
attle about two weeks ago and was evi-
dently ou aspree. His money had about
given out, but he sought the aid of Dr.
Henderson, in the Sullivan biock, The
doctor helped him along, but Cobb
drank heavily and was drunk «a
great part of the time. Last Friday
Mrs. Elmer Mayberry, wife of the bar-
tender in the Pantheon saloon, was in the
doctor's office having her teeth fixed. She
left her purse, containing a diamond pin,
in the private office. While it lay there
Cobb waiked in, and seeing the purse,
opened it and taoxk out the bracelet. He
then went out and proceeded to drink
some more whisky. .

the chief of police of Port Townsend
while searching for the boy. Rogers told
him.-to go to bed and he wonld'see him at
12 o'clock yeaterday. Mayverry kept in-
sisting that the boy’s father was wealthy
and woud have to pay all expenses in the

e Rogers left Mayberry and returned to his
office. Capt. J. L. Barck then took the
boy to Fremont and put him to bed, re-
turned with him at 7 a’clock and left

him at Dr. Henderson's office. Dr.
Henderson went. to the .train at
8:45 and procured a ticket for

Stockton. Just prior to the train’s leav-
ing Detective Roberts stepped ap and
piaced Cobb under arrest. Chief Jackson
and Mayberry appeared on the scene and
Cobb was taken to the station. The
boy was taken into the private office
and kept while Mayor Ronald and a
stenographer were sent for. He was kept
there from 8:30 to 1:30 o’clock before Dr.
Henderson or Attorney H. G. McClure were
allowed to see him. While they had him
in the ‘“‘sweas box” they secured affidavits
and when they had finished ihe work jet
Dr. Henderson see him. Chief Jackson
told Dr. Henderson that he would release
the boy on $500 cash bail. The time was
too late and the boy had to lie in jail ail
night. .
