the

Ht
oil

Fi?
g

Practically admitted the fact, and that he
would not have it “pulled” for 00.
It was claimed on behalf of the city

| that the destruction of gambling impie-

ments wae not a part of the punishment
but @ means of preventing gambiing in
the future, and that Judge Glasgow, as
the judicial branch of the city govern-
ment, ought to order the property de-
stroyed and thereby assist the authorities
in suppressing a practice so dangerous to
the morals of the community.

John Wiley contended for Shaw that
there was no evidence to warrant the be-
lief tnat the Union Club was run for

gambling purposes or that any of the
property seized was gambling furniture.

He maintained that it was necessary to
convict before the court would have any
jurisdiction to destroy, and that the court,

having passed final judgment of acquittal,
—hnad jost juriadiciion to order the alleged-

gambling property
“Why.”

to be destroyed.

saki John Wiley, as he

reached up and touched the ceiling, “your
honor has not even jurisdiction to fine me

should I be guilty of improper conduct in
the presence of the court.”
At this Judge Giasgow’s face grew red
and he began to exhibit some interest in
the case.
Mr. Wey frankly admitted to the court

the authorities on the point at issue were

mot hear i.

far from numerous.
Mr. Winstock cloded for the clty, reiter-
ating the statement that Chief Rogers
had testified without equivocation that
from thirteen years’ experience such a
place as the Union Club and such mater-
fais as he found there were for no other
purposes than gambling. He closed with
a strong appeal for an order to destroy
the gambling furniture, in order that the
efforts of the chief of police toward the
furtherance of public decency might meet
with substantial support. :
Judge Glasgow then delivered his de-
cision, He said im substance that he
hed not rehdered final judgment in the
case and still had jurisdiction. He be-
lieved that tn order to convict Shaw of
running the Union club as a gambling
resort, more positive testimony should be
adduced than was given at the trial. The
only testimony then given were certain
gsiatements which Shaw made to the
officers but nothing that he éaid was
inconsistent with the theory that his
club was merely @ pleasure resort. Rich
men might congregate there for the pur-
pose of playing for pleasures and yet if
they did not meet and play for gain they
would not be liable for gambiing nor
would Shaw be Hable for running a
gambling plaec. Such games were rut
in many private houses of the city and
that Ht certainly would not be held poa-
sible to convict such persons of gambling.
A charge of this kind should be viewed
with all the attending circumstances.
Neither a roulette wheel nor @eny cther
device was unlawful in iteeIf for ¢M might
be used for a lawful purpose. The judge
gaid further that it was possible that
the obfef did teetify that the reputation
of the Union club was that of a gambling
house; in fact he did mot doubt but that
the chief so testified, but that he did
He felt that the only theory
upon which he could order destruction |
of property alleged to be used for gamb- —
ling purposes was by proving sati«factor-
fiy that they were so usetl, and In his
apinion this had not been done. He

ten denfed the order and in a few min- |

utes on appeal of Wiley, ordered the |

goods returned. )
