HE WANTED CHESTY,

And Shot Her Father for Interfering.

SHE IS VERY COLD BLOODED

And Unconcernedly Tells the Story of Her Father's Murder—Only 14 Years Old.

Seattle, April 23—Taylor Stark, the Falls City grocer, who shot and killed Nels Bloomstran, the father of his sweetheart, Chesty Bloomstran, last Monday, was captured by Sheriff Woolery and a posse yesterday morning, and he is now safe in the county jail. The people of Falls City are very bitter against the murderer, and the coroner's jury brought in a verdict finding that Bloomstran came to his death at the hands of Stark and that the killing was "unprovoked and premeditated."

When found by the sheriff, Stark gave himself up without fighting. On the journey to Seattle he was vivacious and cheerful. He had not heard of the coroner's verdict, but said that he would come out all right; that Bloomstran fired at him first and that he fired back in self-defense. This statement conflicts with those given by the Bloomstran family.

Sheriff Woolery left for Falls City Wednesday morning, with Deputies McDonald, Wells and Johnston. He was joined at Gilman by Deputy J. J. Jolly. Coroner Horton accompanied the sheriff from Seattle and the party arrived at Falls City about noon the same day, and the inquest was held at the farm of Bloomstran, about three miles from town, an hour and a half later.

Mrs. Bloomstran witnessed the killing of her husband, and she related to the jury how it came about. She said:

"Stark has been paying attention to my stepdaughter, Chesty, 14 years old. We objected to his coming to the house any more. Monday Chesty went to town, and the same morning she returned with Stark. Stark said he wanted to see my husband and myself alone. He said he wanted to talk about Chesty. My husband said he would not talk to him, that he couldn't have the girl, that she was not old enough. He said when Chesty got old enough he did not care whom she married. Then Stark turned to me and said: 'What have you to say?' I said I concurred with my husband. He then turned to Chesty and said: 'Come on.' He took her by the hand and went out. My husband followed and tried to take the girl away from him. About 200 yards from the house he fired a shot in the air to frighten Stark. Stark then pulled a revolver and shot twice. My husband threw up his hands and reeled against the fence. As he fell to the ground I heard him say:

"'Oh, my God, my God!'

"And that was all. Stark took Chesty and went right to town with her."

The testimony of the rest of the family was virtually the same, except that of the girl, Chesty, who was the cause of the trouble. She seemed to suffer no remorse, and testified as freely one way as she did the other, contradicting herself many times. The sheriff said that Bloomstran was highly respected, and was considered the leading citizen about the town.

Bloomstran's remains were buried last evening.

As soon as the verdict was rendered Sheriff Woolery started out to find the murderer. He learned that he was in hiding at a place about three miles northeast of Falls City and, Wednesday night he secretly went out there and made the capture. Sheriff Woolery says the people of the town are incensed at the justice of the peace, Dr. Lansing, and his constable because they made no effort to apprehend the murderer. Both have excuses, however. Dr. Lansing said no one made a complaint and therefore he could not issue a warrant, and when chided for not making the arrest the constable would say: "How could I arrest him without a warrant?" Although Sheriff Woolery was not supplied with a warrant he got his man and took him to jail.